queueId: ingest-1781569954395-p7s
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/20_Standard(국제)/03 Biocompatibility/ISO 10993-7 에틸렌 옥사이드 멸균 잔류물 [영문] 2008.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/84c5c3997031/ISO 10993-7 에틸렌 옥사이드 멸균 잔류물 [영문] 2008__84c5c3997031_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 638e022e7811
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 2006

SOURCE_TEXT
1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
INTERNATIONAL
STANDARD
10
10993-7
Second edition
2008-10-15
Biological evaluation of medical
devices -
Part 7:
Ethylene oxide sterilization residuals
Evaluation biologique des dispositifs medicaux-
Partie 7: Residus de sterilisation a I'oxyde d'ethylene
Reference number
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
© ISO 2008

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
PDF disclaimer
This PDF file may contain embedded typefaces. In accordance with Adobe's licensi ng policy, this file may be printed or viewed but
shall not be edited unless the typefaces which are embedded are licensed to and installed on the computer performing the editing . In
downloading this file , parties accept therein the responsibility of not infringing Adobe's licensing policy. The ISO Central Secretariat
accepts no liability in this area.
Adobe is a trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated .
Details of the software products used to create this PDF file can be found in the General Info relative to the file; the PDF-creation
parameters were optimized for printi ng . Every care has been taken to ensure that the file is suitable for use by ISO member bodies . In
the unlikely event that a problem relating to it is found , please inform the Central Secretariat at the address given below.
COPYRIGHT PROTECTED DOCUMENT
© ISO 2008
Al l rights reserved . Unless otherwise specified , no part of this publication may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means,
electronic or mechanical, including photocopying and microfilm, without permission in writing from either ISO at the address below or
ISO's member body in the country of the requester.
ISO copyright office
Case postale 56. CH-1211 Geneva 20
Tel. + 41 22 749 01 11
Fax + 41 22 7490947
E-mail copyright@iso.org
Web www.iso.org
Published in Switzerland
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Contents Page
Foreword ............................................................................................................................................................ iv
Introduction ....................................................................................................................................................... vi
1 Scope ......................................................................................................................................................1
2 Normative references ................................................................................................" ..........................1
3 Terms and definitions ...........................................................................................................................1
4 Requirements .........................................................................................................................................2
4.1 General ....................................................................................................................................................2
4.2 Categorization of devices .....................................................................................................................2
4.3 Allowable limits ......................................................................................................................................3
4.4 Determination of EO and ECH residuals .............................................................................................5
5 Product release ....................................................................................................................................10
5.1 General ..................................................................................................................................................10
5.2 Release of products without diSSipation curve data ....................................................................... 10
5.3 Procedure for product release using residue dissipation curves .................................................. 10
Annex A (normative) Evaluation of gas chromatograms ..............................................................................12
Annex B (informative) Gas chromatographiC determination for EO and ECH ............................................ 15
Annex C (informative) Flowchart and guidance for the application of this part of ISO 10993 series
of standards to the determination of EO and ECH residuals in medical devices ......................... 19
Annex D (informative) Factors influencing product residual.. ...................................................................... 26
Annex E (informative) Extraction conditions for determination of residual EO ......................................... 28
Annex F (informative) Rationale for the provisions of this part of ISO 10993 ............................................29
Annex G (informative) Establishment of allowable limits for EO ................................................................. 33
Annex H (informative) Establishment of allowable limits for ECH ...............................................................50
Annex I (informative) Establishment of allowable limits for EG ................................................................... 59
Annex J (informative) Preparation of EO and ECH standards ......................................................................63
Annex K (informative) Ethylene oxide residue measuring methods ...........................................................67
Bibliography ......................................................................................................................................................74
© ISO 2008 All rights reserved iii

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Foreword
ISO (the International Organization for Standardization) is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies
(ISO member bodies). The work of preparing International Standards is normally carried out through ISO
technical committees. Each member body interested in a subject for which a technical committee has been
established has the right to be represented on that committee. International organizations, governmental and
non-governmental, in liaison with ISO, also take part in the work. ISO collaborates closely with the
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) on all matters of electrotechnical standardization.
International Standards are drafted in accordance with the rules given in the ISOIIEC Directives, Part 2.
The main task of technical committees is to prepare International Standards. Draft International Standards
adopted by the technical committees are circulated to the member bodies for voting. Publication as an
International Standard requires approval by at least 75 % of the member bodies casting a vote.
Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent
rights. ISO shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights.
ISO 10993-7 was prepared by Technical Committee ISOITC 194, Biological evaluation of medical devices.
This second edition cancels and replaces the first edition (ISO 10993-7: 1995) which has been technically
revised.
ISO 10993 consists of the following parts, under the general title Biological evaluation of medical devices:
Part 1: Evaluation and testing within a risk management system
Part 2: Animal welfare requirements
Part 3: Tests for genotoxicity, carCinogenicity and reproductive toxiCity
Part 4: Selection of tests for interactions with blood
Part 5: Tests for in vitro cytotoxiCity
Part 6: Tests for local effects after implantation
Part 7: Ethylene oxide sterilization residuals
Part 9: Framework for identification and quantification of potential degradation products
Part 10: Tests for irritation and skin sensitization
Part 11: Tests for systemic toxiCity
Part 12: Sample preparation and reference materials
Part 13: Identification and quantification of degradation products from polymeric medical devices
Part 14: Identification and quantification of degradation products from ceramics
Part 15: Identification and quantification of degradation products from metals and alloys
iv © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Part 16: Toxicokinetic study design for degradation products and leachables
Part 17: Establishment of allowable limits for leachable substances
Part 18: Chemical characterization of materials
Part 19: Physico-chemical, morphological and topographical characterization of materials [Technical
Specification]
Part 20: Principles and methods for immunotoxicology testing of medical devices [Technical
Specification]
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved v

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Introduction
Requirements for the development, validation and routine control of an ethylene oxide sterilization process for
medical devices are given in International Standards developed by ISO/TC 198. Certain requirements relating
to medical devices for biological testing, selection of tests, and the allocation of devices to categories are dealt
with in a variety of International Standards developed by ISOJTC 194. The specific requirement for ethylene
oxide and other sterilization process residuals was referred to ISO/TC 194. Other International Standards
delineate particular requirements for biological testing for specific products.
As noted in the introduction to ISO 11135-1 :2007, when determining the suitability of ethylene oxide (EO) for
sterilization of medical devices, it is important to ensure that the levels of residual ethylene chlorohydrin
(ECH) and ethylene glycol (EG) pose a minimal risk to the patient in normal product use. Therefore, it is
important that the use of alternative materials and sterilization processes be considered during product design
and development. EO is known to exhibit a number of biological effects. In the development of this part of
ISO 10993, consideration was given to these effects, which include irritation, organ damage, mutagenicity and
carcinogenicity in hUmans and animals, and reproductive effects in animals. Similar consideration was given
to the harmful effects of ECH and EG. In practice, for most devices, exposure to EO and ECH is considerably
lower than the maximum values specified in this part of ISO 10993.
Moreover, when the choice for EO sterilization has been made, irrespective of the provisions of this part of
ISO 10993, exposure to EO residues should be minimized. Requirements herein are in addition to the
biological evaluation and testing requirements for each individually designed medical device as indicated in
ISO 10993-1. The biological evaluation and testing requirements, combined with the EO-sterilization process
residue limits, form the justification that an EO-sterilized device is acceptable for use. Maximum allowable
residues for ethylene chlorohydrin (ECH), when ECH has been found to be present in medical devices
sterilized with EO, are also specified. local effects (e.g., irritation) have been considered and are incorporated
in the tolerable contact limit (TCl) as given in 4.3.5.2 and Annex G for EO, and in 4.3.5.3 and Annex H for
ECH.
vi © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

!OS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
INTERNATIONAL STANDARD ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Biological evaluation of medical devices -
Part 7:
Ethylene oxide sterilization residuals
1 Scope
This part of ISO 10993 specifies allowable limits for residual ethylene oxide (EO) and ethylene chlorohydrin
(ECH) in individual EO-sterilized medical devices, procedures for the measurement of EO and ECH, and
methods for determining compliance so that devices may be released. Additional background, including
guidance and a flowchart showing how this document is applied, are also included in the informative annexes.
EO-sterilized devices that have no patient contact (e.g., in vitro diagnostic devices) are not covered by this
part of ISO 10993.
NOTE This part of ISO 10993 does not specify limits for ethylene glycol (EG).
2 Normative references
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of this document. For dated
references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition of the referenced
document (including any amendments) applies.
ISO 10993-1 :-1), Biological evaluation of medical devices - Part 1: Evaluation and testing within a risk
management process
ISO 10993-3, Biological evaluation of medical devices - Part 3: Tests for genotoxicity, carcinogenicity and
reproductive toxicity
ISO 10993-10, Biological evaluation of medical devices - Part 10: Tests for irritation and delayed-type
hypersensitivity
ISO 10993-12, Biological evaluation of medical devices - Part 12: Sample preparation and reference
materials
ISO 10993-17:2002, Biological evaluation of medical devices - Part 17: Establishment of allowable limits for
leachable substances
3 Terms and definitions
For the purposes of this document, the terms and definitions given in ISO 10993-1, ISO 10993-17 and the
following apply.
3.1
simulated-use extraction
extraction to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this part of ISO 10993, by evaluating residue
levels available to the patient or user from devices during the routine use of a device with water extraction to
simulate product use
1) To be published. (Revision of ISO 10993-1 :2003)
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 1

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
3.2
exhaustive extraction
extraction until the amount of EO or ECH in a subsequent extraction is less than 10 % of that detected in the
first extraction, or until there is no analytically significant increase in the cumulative residue levels detected
NOTE As it is not possible to demonstrate the exhaustive nature of residual recovery, the definition of exhaustive
extraction adopted is as above.
4 Requirements
4.1 General
NOTE Information on the derivation of the limits in this part of ISO 10993 as well as other important background
information and guidance relevant to the use of this document is contained in the informative annexes.
This clause specifies maximum allowable residues for ethylene oxide (EO) for each individual medical device
sterilized with EO. As noted in the introduction to ISO 11135-1 :2007, when determining the suitability of EO for
sterilization of medical devices, it is important to ensure that the levels of residual EO, ethylene chlorohydrin
(ECH) and ethylene glycol (EG) pose a minimal risk to the patient in normal product use. Moreover, when the
choice for EO sterilization has been made, irrespective of the provisions of this standard, exposure to EO
residues should be minimized. Maximum allowable residues for ECH, when ECH has been found to be
present in medical devices sterilized with EO, are also specified. local effects (e.g., irritation) have been
considered and are incorporated in the tolerable contact limit (TCl) as discussed in 4.3.5.2 and Annex G for
EO, and 4.3.5.3 and Annex H for ECH. No device limits are specified for EG because a risk assessment
(Annex I) indicates that calculated allowable levels are higher than those likely to occur in a medical device.
However, the potential exists for acute haemodynamic and haemolytic effects to occur following rapid
intravenous administration of hyperosmolar compounds like EG. Ethylene oxide sterilization of medical
devices would not be expected to produce hyperosmolar solutions. Methods for the determination of EO and
ECH are given in 4.4.
The requirements in this part of ISO 10993 are in addition to the biological testing requirements set out in
ISO 10993-1 For devices sterilized using ethylene oxide, attention shall be paid in particular to ISO 10993-3
and ISO 10993-10. All applicable requirements of ISO 10993-1 shall take into account the EO residual level at
the time of r~lease for each individually designed medical device.
Results of the biological assessment of the device may dictate more stringent limits than those specified
in 4.3, which are designed to protect against systemic effects.
4.2 Categorization of devices
In establishing the maximum daily doses of EO and ECH that a medical device is allowed to deliver to
patients, devices shall be categorized according to the duration of contact.
Devices shall be placed into one of three exposure categories in accordance with ISO 10993-1 :-, 5.3:
a) limited exposure (A) - devices whose cumulative Single, multiple or repeated use or contact is up to 24 h;
b) prolonged exposure (8) - devices whose cumulative single, multiple, or repeated long-term use or
contact is likely to exceed 24 h but not 30 d;
c) permanent contact (C) - devices whose cumulative Single, multiple or repeated long-term use or contact
exceeds 30 d.
If a material or device can be placed in more than one duration category, the more rigorous testing and/or
evaluation considerations should apply. With multiple exposures, the decision into which category a device is
placed should take into account the potential cumulative effect, bearing in mind the period of time over which
these exposures occur.
NOTE As it is applied in this part of ISO 10993, "multiple use" is defined to mean repeated use of the same device
type, e.g. dialyser cartridges.
2 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
4.3 Allowable limits
4.3.1 General
For each medical device, the maximum allowable doses of EO and ECH delivered to patients shall not exceed
the values given below for the exposure category that the device has been placed into in accordance with 4.2.
The limits for permanent contact and prolonged exposure devices are expressed as maximum average daily

doses. These limits carry additional constraints for the first 24 h of the exposure period and, in the case of the
permanent contact devices, for the first 30 days. These constraints place limitations on the amount of EO and
ECH that can be delivered to the patient during these early time periods. If data are available, consideration
should be given for proportioning the limits downward if multiple devices with the residue of concern are used
at one time, or proportioning the limits upward when device use is only for a part of the exposure period of
concern. These concomitant exposure factors (CEF) and proportional exposure factors (PEF) are given in
ISO 10993-17. The procedure that was used to establish the allowable limits is described in Annex G for EO,
in Annex H for ECH, and the rationale for considering the establishment of allowable limits for EG is described
in Annex I.
4.3.2 Permanent contact devices
The average daily dose of EO to patient shall not exceed 0,1 mg/d. In addition, the maximum EO dose shall
not exceed:
4 mg in the first 24 h;
60 mg in the first 30 d;
2,5 g in a lifetime.
The average daily dose of ECH to patient shall not exceed 0,4 mg/d. In addition, the maximum ECH dose
shall not exceed:
9 mg in the first 24 h;
60 mg in the first 30 d;
10 g in a lifetime.
4.3.3 Prolonged exposure devices
The average dally dose of EO to patient shall not exceed 2 mg/d. In addition, the maximum EO dose shall not
exceed:
4 mg in the first 24 h;
60 mg in the first 30 d.
The average daily dose of ECH to patient shall not exceed 2 mg/d. In addition, the maximum ECH dose shall
not exceed:
9 mg in the first 24 h;
60 mg in the first 30 d.
4.3.4 Limited exposure devices
The average daily dose of EO to patient shall not exceed 4 mg.
The average daily dose of ECH to patient shall not exceed 9 mg.
© ISO 2008 All rights reserved 3

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
4.3.5 Tolerable contact limits for surface contacting devices and implants
4.3.5.1 Overview
The tolerable contact limit (TCl) is expressed in units of micrograms per square centimetre for EO and
milligrams per square centimetre for ECH. The unit of square centimetre represents the surface area of the
patient-device interface.
NOTE The intent of this subclause is to prevent localized irritation due to EO or ECH released from the device.
4.3.5.2 Tolerable contact limit for EO
Either the EO TCl for surface contacting devices and implants shall not exceed 10 IJg/cm2 or it shall exhibit
negligible irritation as specified in ISO 10993-10.
4.3.5.3 Tolerable contact limit for ECH for surface contacting devices
Either the ECH TCl for surface contacting devices and implants shall not exceed 5 mg/cm 2 or it shall exhibit
negligible irritation as specified in ISO 10993-10.
4.3.6 Special situations
For multi-device systems the limits shall apply to each individual patient-contact device.
Residue of EO in intraocular lenses shall not exceed 0,5 IJg EO per lens per day, or 1,25 IJg per lens. Prorate
limits for other intraocular devices are set on the basis of the mass of the device, with the mass of an
intraocular lens taken as 20 mg. The acceptability of ECH levels in intraocular devices made from viscoelastic
materials that contain chlorine may need to be evaluated, as the level of ECH that results in ocular toxicity is
about four times greater than the corresponding EO level.
For blood cell separators used in patient and donor blood collection, the maximum allowable dose of EO is
10 mg and the maximum allowable dose of ECH shall not exceed 22 mg.
For blood oxygenators and blood separators, the maximum allowable dose of EO to patient is 60 mg and the
maximum allowable dose of ECH shall not exceed 45 mg.
For devices used in cardiopulmonary bypass procedures, the maximum allowable limits shall be 20 mg for EO
and 9 mg for ECH.
For extracorporeal blood purification devices, the EO and ECH limits specified shall be 4,6 mg/device, but the
allowable EO dose for a lifetime may be exceeded.
For drapes that are intended to contact only intact skin, the maximum allowable limits shall be the TCl of
10 IJg/cm2 for EO and 5 mg/cm 2 for ECH, or the drapes shall exhibit negligible irritation as specified in
ISO 10993-10.
NOTE The rationale for specifying EO limits for certain devices that are at variance with the general requirements
appears in Annex F.
A flowchart providing guidance for the application of this part of ISO 10993 to the determination of EO
residuals in medical devices is presented in Annex C.
4 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008{E)
4.4 Determination of EO and ECH residuals
4.4.1 General
4.4.1.1 Procedure
The procedure for determining compliance with 4.3 consists of extracting the residue from samples,
determining the amount of residue, determining the contact surface of the device, and analysing and
interpreti ng the data.
DANGER - Analysts and others who obtain samples should perform all work involving the use of the
chemicals and solvents required for these methods in a fume cupboard whilst wearing appropriate
protective clothing, and should review the Material Safety Data information for each chemical prior to
such use. Healthcare workers using EO-sterilized medical devices shall take appropriate precautions
to protect against exposure to residues, which may be required by local occupational health and
safety regulations.
4.4.1.2 Ethylene oxide
This is a flammable gas that is irritating to body surfaces and highly reactive. It is mutagenic under many
conditions, has fetotoxic and teratogenic properties, can adversely effect testicular function and can produce
injury to many organ systems in the body. In cancer studies in animals, inhalation exposure produced several
types of neoplastic changes including leukaemia, brain tumours and mammary tumours while ingestion or
subcutaneous administration produced tumours only at the site of contact. One investigator has reported
higher cancer and mortality rates in some subpopulations of exposed workers. However, the results of several
studies in workers have shown even weaker associations. See References [177], [178] and [181]. In 1994 the
International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) reclassified EO as a human carcinogen (class 1) based
mainly on its mechanism of action. See Reference [75].
4.4.1.3 Ethylene chlorohydrin
Tl"lis is a flammable liquid that is irritating to body surfaces, acutely toxic and readily absorbed through the skin
in toxic amounts. It has weak mutagenic potential, has some potential to produce fetotoxic and teratogenic
changes and can produce injury to several organ systems in the body including lungs, kidneys, central
nervous system and cardiovascular system. It was negative in cancer bioassays in animals.
4.4.2 Determination of residue
A valid method of extraction and measurement shall be used to determine the amount of EO and, where
necessary, ECH delivered to the patient.
If ECH is not detected based on the results of analyses performed using the methods given in either K.4.2 or
K.4.7, no further monitoring for ECH is required.
NOTE Many gas chromatography (GC) methods that use a capillary column instead of a packed column will produce
EO, ECH and EG results during a single sample run.
The guiding principle in selecting appropriate extraction methods (4.4.6) for the quantitative determination of
EO and, where necessary, ECH is the evaluation of the dose to the patient in order to show compliance with
the requirements set out in 4.3.
Where residues are shown to be within the requirements for products tested by exhaustive extraction, there is
no need to further challenge the device by simulated-use extraction, provided all applicable limits in 4.3 are
met. When exhaustive extraction is used. particular attention shall be paid to the limits expressed for the first
24 h and for the first 30 days in 4.3.
Many analytical methods for these EO-sterilization residuals have been described and are reviewed in the
Bibliography. However, the enormous diversity of materials and methods of construction of sterile medical
© ISO 2008 All rights reserved 5

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
devices may, in certain cases, still present problems in determining residual EO and ECH levels using the
methods given in the Bibliography. Therefore, any method that has been shown to be analytically sound (i.e.
demonstrated accuracy, precision, linearity, sensitivity, and selectivity) may be used, provided that it has been
validated. Annex A contains general validation requirements for gas chromatographic methods.
4.4.3 Product sampling and sample "blank"
4.4.3.1 Product sampling
Samples to be used for residual analysis shall be selected in such a manner as to be truly representative of
the product. When selecting samples, attention shall be given to the many factors described in Annex D.
Since many of these factors influence not only the initial levels of residuals in device components but also the
rate of residue dissipation, they shall also be considered when test samples are drawn from a processed load
and sent to the laboratory for analysis. Removal of the product samples from the processed load soon after a
sterilization cycle is completed and shipment to a laboratory far from the sterilization site or storage in the
laboratory for later analysis can jeopardize correlations of residual levels on the samples with those on the
rest of the load. Moreover, if samples cannot be drawn from the load and handled so that the effect on
aeration conditions for the sample will be negligible, an experiment to establish the relationship between the
sample aeration and load aeration at various seasons of the year shall be carried out.
Precautions shall be taken to minimize or control the effects of laboratory conditions on the rate of aeration for
test samples that have been removed from a product load (see 0.1.5). In addition, operator and analyst safety
shall be ensured. Samples should remain with the product load until the day of analysis or until test samples
are retrieved and immediately frozen. The time between removal of samples from a controlled aeration area
and the beginning of extraction should be held to a minimum. Samples shall be sealed, shipped and stored
frozen when analysis is delayed. Samples shall be shipped on dry ice on overnight delivery. Dry ice shall
remain in the shipping container throughout the shipment and be present when the package is opened in the
laboratory. Test samples may also be taken directly from the product load at the desired aeration interval and
immediately placed into a headspace vial, which is sealed and then shipped to the laboratory for analysis. As
an alternative, samples may be extracted and the extraction fluid shipped to the analytical laboratory for
analysis. If the extraction fluid is water, then shipment shall be done such that the fluid is kept at ice-cold
temperatures « 10 °C) until arrival. Testing should be carried out to measure hydrolysis of EO to EG.
Samples to be analysed shall be placed in a fume cupboard and removed from the packaging. Samples shall
be prepared according to any applicable pre-use instructions in the product labelling. Extractions shall be
started as soon as possible after the device has been removed from the packaging or pre-use preparations
have been completed.
4.4.3.2 Sample "blank"
To ensure that no other sample matrix components with the same retention time as any of the residues being
determined are present, a "blank" sample shall be evaluated for the possible presence of such interferences
by the extraction of a non-sterilized sample using the identical procedure being applied to the EO-sterilized
samples. In the event of materials being extracted from such a "blank" with conflicting or overlapping retention
times in the GC analysis, chromatographic conditions shall be modified to separate the interfering peak from
the analyte peak, or an alternative analytical procedure shall be used.
4.4.4 Sample/fluid ratios
The volume of fluid used to extract residues from devices, or representative sections of them, shall be
sufficient to maximize extraction efficiency while maintaining detection sensitivity. The nature and size of the
device sample therefore determines what constitutes the optimal fluid volume for extraction. Therefore, to
maximize analytical sensitivity, a minimum amount of extraction fluid should be used depending on the
extraction method required and size of the sample. Devices composed of highly absorbent materials or those
from which residues are extracted by filling may require sample/extraction fluid ratios reflecting increased fluid
volume. In any case, sample/extraction fluid ratios shall not undermine detection sensitivity.
6 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
4.4.5 Extraction time and conditions
The aim of product extraction is to indicate the worst-case amount that could be delivered to the patient in
actual use of the device: on a daily basis for limited exposure items; on a daily and up to monthly basis for
prolonged exposure items; on a daily, monthly, and up to a lifetime basis for permanent contact items. As
indicated in Annexes E and F, exhaustive extraction as described below can be a useful alternative for
permanent contact devices, provided that shorter-term constraints are ensured.
4.4.6 Product extraction
4.4.6.1 Overview
There are two basic extraction methods used for the determination of EO-sterilization residuals in medical
devices: simulated-use extraction, which is the reference method; exhaustive extraction, which represents an
acceptable alternative in certain situations. The choice of extraction method shall be based on the intended
use of the device. Examples of suggested extraction methods are shown in Annex K.
The extraction method chosen shall represent the intended use of the product with the greatest challenge to
the patient and not solely expeditious analysis or to minimize the apparent concentration of residuals.
Extraction temperatures and times shall be determined based on the nature of the patient's exposure and the
patient's duration of contact with the device as described in 4.2 and 4.3. See ISO 10993-12 for extraction
tem peratu res.
The analyst is cautioned that for certain devices, simulated-use extraction may result in relatively large elution
volumes. Should this occur it might significantly increase the limit of detection for the residual material to the
point where a determination of compliance with this part of ISO 10993 is compromised.
Small devices shall be extracted in a suitable container. When a device is too large to be extracted in its
entirety, it may be necessary to extract several representative portions of the device components in order to
ensure confidence in the data derived.
These representative portions may be selected in one of two ways. If several varied materials are used, the
proportion of each component, as compared with the total sample mass, should parallel the ratio of that
component to the total mass of the device being tested. An alternative method would be to select one of the
components for testing, subsequent to an evaluation demonstrating that it represented the worst case with
regard to residual content. The method chosen shall be validated.
4.4.6.2 Simulated-use extraction (reference method)
Simulated-use aqueous extraction is the reference method in that it is the only method that produces results
directly comparable to the limits specified in 4.3. These limits are expressed in terms of delivered dose of EO
and ECH to patients.
Since it is necessary to evaluate the residue levels available to the patient, or other end user, from devices in
routine use, extraction methods that simulate use are required. Simulated-use extraction shall be carried out
under conditions that provide the greatest challenge to the intended use.
For example, many blOOd-contacting and parenteral devices can be extracted with water by filling or flushing
the blood or fluid path (whichever is appropriate). Samples shall be extracted for a time equivalent to or
exceeding the maximum time for single use, and at temperatures that provide the greatest realistic simulated
challenge.
To determine the dose of EO and, where necessary, ECH delivered to the patient or user over the course of
normal product use, simulated-use aqueous extraction procedures are used.
NOTE The amounts of EO (or ECH) extracted by simulating normal product use are not necessarily similar to the
total product residual content.
© ISO 2008 All rights reserved 7

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Water (see [92]) is commonly used for the recovery of residual EO, ECH (and EG if there is any concern
about hydrolysis of EO) in simulated-use extractions. Water is used for elution of EO residuals from the
sample rather than to dissolve the sample material itself. If the intent is to simulate product use by filling the
device, the device should be filled so as to eliminate any air pockets: extract devices that are wholly or
partially in contact with the body during use at 37°C (body temperature); extract devices having no immediate
body contact during use (e.g., hypodermic syringes) at 25 °C (room temperature). See also ISO 10993-12. If
the assay is not performed immediately, the extract should be decanted from the sample and sealed in a
poly-(tetrafluoroethylene) (PTFE)-lined, septum-capped vial. The headspace in the vial of any standard
solution or extract shall be less than 10% of the total volume. The extract can be stored in the refrigerator for
several days (see Annex F) but, where water extraction is used, caution shall be taken, as EO may convert to

EG or ECH (or both) during the extraction period as well as during storage of the extract (see [35]). The
analyst shall evaluate the possibility of this conversion to EG and/or ECH at the analysis site when extracting
the sample with water.
4.4.6.3 Exhaustive extraction (acceptable alternative method)
4.4.6.3.1 Overview
Exhaustive extraction represents an acceptable alternative and can provide useful information. It produces
results that would tend to represent a dose greater than or equal to one the patient may receive. Because
such an extraction precludes measurement of dose as a function of time, it does not ensure that the mass of
residue is not delivered to the patient on the first day or during the first month of exposure. However, when all
applicable limits in 4.3 are met and residues are shown to be within the requirements for products tested by
exhaustive extraction, there is no need to further challenge the device by simUlated-use extraction. When
exhaustive extraction is used, particular attention shall be paid to the limits expressed for the first 24 h and for
the first 30 d in 4.3.
Exhaustive extraction methods are intended to recover the entire residual content of a device. For EO
determination, extraction procedures used include thermal extraction followed by headspace gas analysis,
solvent extraction procedures, with either headspace gas analysis of the solvent extract, chromatography of
the solvent extract, or preparation of the bromohydrin derivative of EO which is determined using a more
sensitive GC detector such as an electron capture detector.
4.4.6.3.2 Residual ethylene oxide
A variety of extraction fluids has been used for the exhaustive recovery of residual EO. Thermal desorption
followed by headspace gas analysis, as described in KA.3, is an example of a procedure that does not use an
extraction fluid. When conducted as described, headspace methods are considered exhaustive since they are
designed to recover all of the residual EO from the sample. However, headspace methods may not be
feasible or preferred for intact testing of large or complex devices. The analyst shall exercise caution in the
execution of headspace methods when evaluating residue levels in polymer materials such as
poly-(methylmethacrylate) to ensure total recovery of EO.
For solvent extraction procedures, selection of a suitable extraction fluid depends on the material composition
of the device and its components. To facilitate complete recovery of EO from the sample, fluids that dissolve
the sample material are generally preferred in an exhaustive extraction, provided that interfering substances
are not also put into solution by the procedure. Solvent extraction procedures that are combined with
headspace gas analysis are described in KA.4 and such procedures may be able to separate EO from
co-extracted interfering chemicals from the sample matrix. Several extraction fluids have been evaluated
through interlaboratory comparison testing, see References [1121. [113] and [114].
Prudent analytical procedure dictates that, in the initial analysis of a given material, more than one extraction
procedure shall be used to validate quantitative recovery whenever an exhaustive extraction is to be
performed. For devices containing a relatively small amount of residual EO, the commonly used methods may
not be capable of extracting these small amounts, even after relatively long extraction times.
8 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

LS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
4.4.6.3.3 Residual ethylene chlorohydrin
Water is typically used to extract residual ECH from medical devices using methods similar to those described
for determining residual EO.
4.4.7 Data analysis and interpretation
4.4.7.1 Calculation of amount of residue extracted
The concentration of residue observed in the extracts, Ce , is converted to the amount delivered to a patient, in
milligrams, Md, as follows.
Residue extracted by simulated use may be calculated as follows:
n
(1 )
Residue extracted by exhaustive extraction may be calculated as follows:
(2)
where
Md is the extract residue, in milligrams;
n is the number of extractions;
Ce is the amount of EO in milligrams per millilitre of extract as derived from the standard curve;
Ve is the extract volume, in millilitres;
md is the entire device mass, in grams;
ms is the mass of sample, in grams.
NOTE This applies only if a portion of the device is extracted.
4.4.7.2 Calculation of average delivered dose, Madd , for comparison to allowable limits in 4.3
For permanent contact devices, the average delivered dose,NJadd , in milligrams per day, is as follows:
Madd 25000 (3)
where
25 000 is the number of days per lifetime;
N/d is the extract residue, in milligrams.
Permanent contact devices shall also meet the prolonged exposure and limited exposure limits as calculated
below.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 9

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
For prolonged exposure devices
Madd = 30 {4}
where
30 is the number of days per month;
Nfd is the extract residue, in milligrams.
Prolonged exposure devices shall also meet the limited exposure limits as calculated below.
For limited exposure devices:
(5)
5 Product release
5.1 General
A product is in compliance with this part of ISO 10993 when it meets the requirements for EO and, if
applicable, ECH. If sufficient experimental data on residue diffusion kinetics are available, it may be possible
to group devices for quality assurance testing based on similarity of materials, manufacturing processes and
use (see Annex D).
For release of batches of EO-sterilized product, one of the two metll0ds in 5.2 and 5.3 respectively shall be
used.
5.2 Release of products without dissipation curve data
When dissipation curve data are not available on a product, the product may be released if it is in compliance
with this part of ISO 10993 and the data were obtained from testing carried out according to appropriate
procedures delineated in Annex K and meet the requirements for EO and, if applicable, ECH set out in 4.3.
5.3 Procedure for product release using residue dissipation curves
Dissipation curves are used to estimate the post-sterilization time required for products, or families of similar
products, to reach residue limits, principally for EO, in compliance with 4.3. Products shall be released to the
marketplace according to predetermined post-sterilization times and conditions defined by experimental
dissipation curves so that the target EO residue levels for the device, as set out in 4.3, are ensured. The
product aeration concerns documented in Annex D are to be considered by pooling data from sterilization
loads taken from aeration or quarantine storage at different times of the year if aeration temperatures differ.
Re-sterilization of product and the presence of other EO-sterilized medical devices in adjacent areas shall also
be considered when obtaining experimental data to generate such dissipation curves.
Release of products manufactured and sterilized under controlled conditions, as described in ISO 11135-1,
may be carried out if data are pooled from a minimum of three sterilization lots run at different times.
Dissipation of EO from most materials and devices follows 'first-order kinetics, i.e. (In[EO])a (time after
sterilization). A plot of the natural logarithm of the experimentally determined EO concentration against time
after sterilization is linear. Release shall then be based on the time after sterilization when the mean
regression line intersects the maximum allowable residue. This approach may be used for products which are
not sterilized in sufficient quantity (numbers of sterilization runs) for the procedure described below to be
applied, or may be used while the dissipation curve data described is being collected. Various alternative
methods can be used; for example, if dissipation curves are established whereby samples are tested after the
residual limits have been met, interpolation of the dissipation curve can be used to establish the release of the
product after sterilization.
10 © ISO 2008 All rights reserved

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Regression analysis of pooled data from sufficient time points for at least three lots of the same product to
establish the nature of the dissipation curve will enable product to be released at the calculated upper 95 %
prediction limit, L p' for the allowed residue limit for the product. Time-concentration curves for devices made
from combinations of dissimilar materials may not fit this simple pattern over the entire range and may need to
be handled differently.
Formulae for calculating the prediction limit, Lp:
(6)
(7)
where
Xo is the calculated average value of the release time corresponding to the EO limit;
Yo is the logarithmic value of the EO limit;
a is the intercept of the linear regression line obtained from the plot In[EO]a time;
b is the slope of the regression line;
Lp is the prediction limit for a single individual of the product;
ta is the student t value at significance a with n - 2 degrees of freedom;
(Sa)2 is the residual variance of the regression line;
YfJ is the average of logarithmic EO values;
n is the number of values;
Xi is the individual time after sterilization at which measurements are made;
XfJ is the average of the times after sterilization;
L (xi - xfJ)2 is the sum of squares for x (time).
All data obtained for release of medical devices in compliance with this part of ISO 10993 shall be obtained
from experiments and data analyses carried out following valid standard operating procedures.
When sterilization process parameters listed in Annex D are changed, an audit shall be made of the product
residue. When this audit shows an increase in the level of residual EO, new residue dissipation curves shall
be obtained to ensure product acceptability. When this audit shows a decrease in the level of residual
consideration should be given to the generation of new dissipation curves.
NOTE Verification of dissipation curves is typically done during routine sterilization revalidation in accordance with
ISO 11135-1.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 11

ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
A.1 General
loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
Annex A
(normative)
Evaluation of gas chromatograms
This annex discusses the minimum requirements for the analytical procedures employed for EO and ECH
measurements. These requirements apply for both packed and capillary GC colurnn systems.
A.2 Background
These requirements are discussed in reference books on GC and should be reviewed by analysts before their
use of any of the procedures. Also recommended is a review of the articles concerning detection limits, see
References [15], [35] and [74].
A.3 Symbols
The symbols in Table A.1 are used in Figures A.1 and A.2.
Table A.1 - Symbols
Symbol Descri ption
f distance from peak maximum to leading edge of peak
k' capacity factor
R resolution
T tailing factor
t retention time of the relevant residue peak (EO or ECH)
ta retention time for a non-retained component, such as air, which is
not retarded in its passage through the column
t1, '2 retention time of chromatographic peaks 1 and 2, where t1 is EO (or
ECH) and t2 is an immediately adjacent peak
Wz respective widths extrapolated to the baseline for peaks 1 and 2 in
the same units as the retention time
f O,05 peak width at 5 % of height
A.4 Minimum requirements
A.4.1 For these procedures, it is recommended that the following minimum requirements be met for these
parameters (see Figures A.1 and A.2).
Resolution, R, calculated as follows
(A. 1)
sllall be ;:;: 2,0 for peak area or peak height quantitation.
12 © ISO 2008 All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Alternatively, the following equation may be useful to calculate the capacity factor, k', which shall be greater
than 1,5 for well-resolved peaks:
k' =~-1 (A2)
ta
Tailing, T, given by the following equation, shall be less than or equal to 1,8 for the EO and ECH peaks:
T= (A3)
A.4.2 Relative deviation of the standard curve (RSD) should not exceed 5 % for EO and ECH for the range
of standards used, see References [13] and [14].
n
where
(
'Lx
S x I xy ----"--
n
n 2
n is the total number of samples evaluated;
y is the chromatographic peak area or peak height;
It is the mean;
x is the concentration of the standard;
0- is the standard deviation;
0- 2 is the variance;
S is the slope of the least squares regression line for the standard curve.
(A4)
(A5)
(A.6)
These criteria are calculated for triplicate analyses of at least three standards prepared to cover the expected
linear dynamic range of each of the standard curves used in the analysis of EO and ECH.
A.5 Chromatographic baseline
In addition, it is recommended that the chromatographic baseline return to within 5 % of the initial baseline
between chromatographic runs.
© ISO 2008 All rights reserved 13

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
A.6 Resources
The following sources of information are suggested when corrective changes in these analytical procedures
are indicated:
the manufacturer's manual for the gas chromatograph used;
the various textbooks on GC.
y
4
x
Key
X time
y detection response
1 injection
2 air peak
3 solvent peak
4 solvent tail
Figure A.1 - Chromatographic separation of two substances
Key
1 peak front
2 peak tail
3 peak maximum
14
1
3
Figure A.2 - Asymmetrical chromatographic peak
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Annex
(informative)
Gas chromatographic determination for EO and ECH
8.1 Chromatographic procedures
8.1.1 Preparation of standards
Analysts should establish the stability of the standards they use to calibrate the chromatographic procedure(s)
used and ensure that standards are not used past their established expiry point.
B.1.2 General
The following paragraphs outline the procedure for preparation of GC standards. Two alternatives are
commonly available:
a) use of prepared standards from commercial sources;
b) preparation of standards either volumetrically, by diluting known volumes of EO gas or gravimetrically, by
diluting a known mass of liquid EO. In all cases, prepare a standard curve of peak height or peak area
response versus EO concentration.
NOTE Peak area response compiled by the software of computer-controlled GC instrumentation is more precise than
measuring peak height in determining EO concentrations.
Examples of procedures used for the preparation of EO and ECH standards are provided in Annex J.
B.2 Criteria for validating gas chronlatographic methods
8.2.1 General overview
Many methods are suitable for quantitatively analysing extracts for ethylene oxide. A number of procedures for
exhaustive extraction followed by GC for the determination of EO have been described. There are probably
just as many unpublished methods for determining residual ethylene oxide. Because of the diversity in
medical devices, published methods may not be suitable for all devices. Therefore, any method that has been
shown to be analytically sound and meets the performance criteria described in this part of ISO 10993 can be
used.
Analytically sound means that the method demonstrates sufficient accuracy, preCision, selectivity, linearity,
ruggedness and sensitivity to determine the specified level of EO in a device which is intended to be analysed
in relation to the residue limits shown in 4.3 and is applicable to the device which is intended to be analysed.
A number of analytical methods for assessing levels of EO and ECH residues have been reviewed from the
literature (see Bibliography). For a more detailed discussion of each method, the original literature should be
consulted. The following are recommended criteria for validating a method.
B.2.2 Accuracy
Accuracy is a measure of the closeness of test results obtained by the test method, to the true value.
Accuracy is expressed in terms of recovery, the measured value expressed as a percentage of the accepted
or true value. It requires the comparison of the test method measurement with a known value. The known
value can be prepared from an analyte of known purity or from spiked samples.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 15

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Spiked samples as the means of determining accuracy can be reported as percent recovery of a known added
amount of analyte in the sample. However, for EO, this method for determining accuracy is extremely difficult
to carry out because of the volatility of this compound. As an alternative, the use of commercially available
certified standards is recommended. Thus, the measure of accuracy becomes the mean measured results
divided by the accepted true value together with the confidence interval. In either case, the percent recovery
can be calculated as
R=--'---
x100 (B.1 )
a or Iv
where
R is the recovery in percent;
Ro is the result obtained;
a or tv is the accepted or true value.
Accuracy should be assessed using a minimum of nine determinations over a minimum of three concentration
levels covering the specified range (i.e. three replicates each at three different concentrations).
B.2.3 Precision
8.2.3.1 Overview
Precision is the measure of how close the data values are to each other for a number of measurements under
the same analytical conditions. Precision contains three components: repeatability, intermediate precision and
reproducibility.
8.2.3.2 Repeatability
Repeatability can be assessed using a minimum of nine determinations covering the specified range of
standards used (i.e., three replicates each at three different concentrations). Data generated from method
accuracy as in B.2.2 above can be used for repeatability assessment.

Repeatability can be calculated as the relative standard deviation (coefficient of variation) of the peak area as
specified in Equation (A.4).
The % RSD for EO and ECH should not exceed 5 % for the range of the standards used. The % RSD is
calculated as described in A.4.2.
8.2.3.3 Intermediate preciSion
Intermediate precision can be assessed by establishing the effects of random events on the precision of the
analytical procedure. Examples of random effects include days, analysts, equipment, etc. It is not necessary
to study these events individually. The use of an experimental design (matrix) is encouraged.
As a minimum, data generated as described in accuracy, for two separate events is recommended to
indicate the intermediate precision of the test method. The standard deviation, relative standard deviation
(coefficient of variation), and confidence interval should be reported.
16 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
B.2.3.4 Ruggedness/reproducibility
The ruggedness of an analytical method is the degree of reproducibility of test results obtained by analysis of
the same samples under a variety of conditions, such as different laboratories, different analysts, different
instruments, different lots of reagent, different elapsed assay times, different assay temperatures, different
days, etc. Ruggedness is normally expressed as the lack of influence on the test results of operational and
environmental variables of the analytical method. Ruggedness is a measure of reproducibility of the test
results under the variation in conditions normally expected from laboratory to laboratory and from analyst to
analyst.
Since the method of validation would be performed in an individual laboratory to introduce a new column or
new method, this part of the validation can be done by a combination of different analysts, different days,
different instruments, etc. Reproducibility is not normally expected if intermediate precision is accomplished.
The interlaboratory studies are not important in this part.
B.2.4 Linearity
Linearity is a measure of the correlation between the method response and the concentration of the analyte.
Linearity should be established across the range of standards used. Regression analysis of the standard
concentration versus peak area or peak height should be performed using a minimum of five concentrations.
The analyst should determine the linearity of the calibration data, along with the reproducibility of the slope
and intercept. The minimum correlation coefficient for the standard curve should be 0,95.
B.2.5 Method detection limit (MOL)
B.2.5.1 Overview
The method detection limit is the smallest amount that can be detected with a reasonable confidence. The
detection limit can be determined by the analysis of samples with known concentrations of analyte and by
establishing the minimum level at which the analyte can be reliably detected.
There are many ways to determine the method detection limit. Approaches other than those listed below may
be acceptable.
B.2.5.2 MDL based on signal-to-noise
Determination of the signal-to-noise ratio is performed by comparing measured signals from samples with
known low concentrations of analyte with those of blank samples and establishing the minimum concentration
at which the analyte can be reliably detected. A signal-to-noise ratio of 3:1 is generally accepted.
B.2.5.3 MDL based on the standard deviation of the response
To determine the method detection limit, make a known standard of the analyte of interest near the estimated
MOL and determine the standard deviation for seven injections of the standard.
MOL = s x t (B.2)
where
s is the standard deviation of injections;
t is the student t value at n 1 degrees of freedom at the 99 % confidence level.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 17

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
8.2.6 Quantitation limit (QL)
B.2.6.1 Overview
The quantitation limit is generally determined by the analysis of samples with known concentrations of analyte
and by establishing the minimum level at which the analyte can be quantified with acceptable accuracy and
precision.
There are many ways to determine quantitation limit. Approaches other than those listed below may be
acceptable.
8.2.6.2 QL based on signal-to-noise
Determination of the signal-to-noise ratio is performed by comparing measured signals from samples with
known low concentrations of analyte with those of blank samples and establishing the minimum concentration
at which the analyte can be reliably quantified. A signal-to-noise ratio of 10: 1 is generally accepted.
B.2.6.3 QL based on the standard deviation of the response
The quantitation limit can be expressed as
QL 5 MOL (B.3)
18 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Annex C
(informative)
Flowchart and guidance for the application of this part of ISO 10993
series of standards to the determination of EO and ECH residuals
in medical devices
C.1 Background
This annex provides guidance on the application of certain parts of the ISO 10993 series to the biological
evaluation of medical devices that have been sterilized with ethylene oxide (EO). This annex primarily
addresses the application of this part of ISO 10993, but limited guidance is also given for other parts of the
ISO 10993 series.
This part of ISO 10993 specifies the requirements for establishing allowable limits for EO residues and
analytical procedures to show that an EO-sterilized device is in compliance with the allowable limits. Maximum
allowable limits for ethylene chlorohydrin residues where ECH has been found to be present in medical
devices sterilized with EO are also specified. No exposure limits are set for ethylene glycol because risk
assessment indicated that when EO residues are controlled, it is unlikely that biologically significant residues
of EG would be present. Dose to patient is the basis for establishing the allowable limits and the reference
method for showing compliance with this part of ISO 10993. The second paragraph of the Introduction notes
that alternative materials and sterilization methods should be considered during product development and
design to minimize exposure to EO residues.
In addition to meeting the requirements of this part of ISO 10993, an EO-sterilized device must meet the
biological testing requirements of the other parts of the ISO 10993 series. The requirements of the other parts
of the ISO 10993 series should also be considered.
There are certain circumstances (e.g., major surgery) where the lifesaving nature of the therapy significantly
alters the risk-benefit analysis of the use of an EO-sterilized medical device. The exposure limits given in 4.3
are based on risks and benefits associated with less critical circumstances. In consequence, there is scope for
relaxation of the proposed limits in life-threatening situations where it is not possible to meet the specified
limits.
This annex includes a flow chart that is intended to assist a user in understanding the steps necessary to
apply this document. The flow chart shows the decision points and provides guidance for choosing the
appropriate actions where alternatives are given in the document. Some of the guidance represents a
practical means of applying the document to different products based on factors such as: nature of exposure;
duration of exposure; frequency of use; special situations of use (e.g., as cited in 4.3.6); product size. The flow
chart is supplemented by more detailed text. In addition, Table C.1 provides a succinct summary of the
allowable limits for medical devices in various categories.
Subclause 4.4 gives the requirements for determining EO and ECH residues, and analytical procedures are
described in Annex B. Extraction conditions for the determination of residual EO are given in Annex E.
Guidance on developing an appropriate simulated-use extraction procedure is given in C.3. This enables
users to develop and document the rationale for an appropriate simulated-use extraction procedure for their
EO-sterilized products.
The analytical laboratory should work with the device manufacturer to demonstrate that the simulated-use
extraction is carried out under conditions that provide the greatest challenge to the intended use. Product use
simulation should be carried out assuming that the device is assigned to the most stringent category probable
for the duration of exposure and should take into consideration both tissue(s) exposed and temperature of
exposure.
This text should be used in conjunction with the flow chart in Figure C.1.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 19

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Table C.1 - Summary of allowable limits for EO and ECH (limits per device)
Device category EO ECH
Limited 4 mg 9 mg
« 24 h)
Prolonged 60 mg/30 d 60 mg/30 d
(> 24 h < 30 d)
Permanent 2,5 g/lifetime 10 g/lifetime
(> 30 d)
Tolerable contact limit 10 I-Ig/cm2 or negligible irritation 5 mg/cm2 or negligible irritation
(TCl)
0,5 I-Ig/lens/d 4 x EO limits suggested Intraocular lens 1,25 I-Ig/lens
Blood cell separator (apheresis) 10 mg 22 mg
Blood oxygenators 60 mg 45 mg
Cardiopulmonary bypass devices 20 mg 9 mg
Blood purification devices (hemodialysers) 4,6 mg 4,6 mg
Drapes contacting intact skin 10 I-Ig/cm2 or negligible irritation 5 mg/cm2 or negligible irritation
C.2 Guidance
C.2.1 Use of alternative materials and sterilization methods should have been considered during product
development and design with the aim of minimizing exposure to residues. The rationale and basis for tt"lis
decision should be documented.
C.2.2 If the device has no patient contact 2), this part of ISO 10993 does not apply. 3)
C.2.3 If this is a multi-device system, the limits apply to each individual patient-contact device.
C.2.4 If the device is in a special category, the following apply.
a) If the device is an intraocular lens, the limits are 0,5 I-1g/lens/d, not to exceed 1 I-1g total 4). Limits for
other intraocular devices can be prorated on the basis of the mass of the device, with the mass of an
intraocular lens taken as 20 mg. When EO residues are controlled as specified for intraocular devices, it
is unlikely that significant amounts of ECH will be present. This may not be true for intraocular devices
made from viscoelastic materials that contain chlorine. In such cases, References [44], [118], [119] and
[120]) indicate that the level of ECH that results in ocular toxicity is about four times greater than the
corresponding EO level. This should be taken into consideration when evaluating the acceptability of
ECH levels associated with these devices.
b) If the device is a blood cell separator used in donor and patient blood collection, determine EO and ECH
residues. 4) The maximum allowable limit for EO and ECH shall not exceed 10 mg and 22 mg per device,
respectively. If these limits are exceeded, simulate product use to determine EO residues by extracting
the device at 37°C for up to 24 h, but not less that 1 h. (see C.3.2 and C.3.3). If EO from simulated use
exceeds 10 mg and/or ECH from simulated use exceeds 22 mg, reduce EO and/or ECH; otherwise, the
EO and ECH residue requirements for this device are met, provided the requirements noted in footnote 7)
to C.2.9 have been addressed.
2) Examples include in vitro diagnostic devices, back table covers, Mayo stand covers, light handles, etc.
3) Employee exposure limitations may be required by local occupational health regulations.
4) An exhaustive extraction procedure, as specified in Table E.1 and defined in 3.2, is required to determine EO
residues. The analyst shall verify and document the procedure used.
20 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
c) If the device is a blood oxygenator or blood separator, determine EO and ECH residues. 5} The maximum
allowable dose of EO to patient shall not exceed 60 mg and the maximum allowable dose of ECH shall
not exceed 45 mg. If it does, determine EO residues by simulating product use by extracting the device at
37 DC for up to 24 h but not less than 1 h (see C.3.2 and C.3.3). If the daily dose of EO and/or ECH from
simulation of product use exceeds 60 mg and/or 45 mg, respectively, reduce EO and/or ECH. Otherwise,
if the daily dose of EO is not more than 60 mg and/or the daily dose of ECH is less than 45 mg, the EO
and ECH residue requirements for this device are met.
d) If the device is used in a cardiopulmonary bypass procedure, determine EO and ECH residues. The
maximum allowable daily dose of EO to patient shall not exceed 20 mg and the maximum allowable dose
for ECH shall not exceed 9 mg.
e) If the device is a blood purification device, the EO and ECH limits shall not exceed 4,6 mg per device, but
the allowable EO and ECH dose for a lifetime may be exceeded.
f) If the device is a drape contacting intact skin, the TCL shall be 10 fJg/cm 2 for EO and 5mg/cm2 for ECH or
the drape shall have negligible irritation as specified in ISO 10993-10.
C.2.S If the device is not in a special category as described in C.2.4, determine EO and ECH residues. 6)
C.2.S For permanent exposure devices (those contacting the patient for longer than 30 d to a lifetime),
proceed as follows.
a) If the measured EO and ECH residuals are not more than 2,5 g and 10 g respectively, go to C.2.6 b).
Otherwise, use appropriate temperatures (either 37 DC or 25°C) and times (based on anticipated use
time) with water as the extracting medium to simulate product use (see C.3). If the measured dose of EO
is not more than 2,5 g or the measured dose of ECH is not more than 10 g, where ECH has been found,
go to C.2.6 b). Otherwise, reduce EO and/or ECH.
b) If the measured EO and ECH are not more than 60 mg, go to C.2.6 c). Otherwise, use appropriate
temperatures (either 37°C or 25 DC) for 30 d with water as the extracting medium to simulate product use
(see C.3). If the measured EO and ECH dose, where ECH has been found, is not more than 60 mg, go to
C.2.6 c). Otherwise, reduce EO and/or ECH as in C.2.6 a) and C.2.6 c).
c) If the measured EO and ECH are not more than 4 mg and 9 mg, respectively, go to C.2.9. Otherwise, use
appropriate temperatures (either 37°C or 25 DC) for 24 h with water as the extracting medium to simulate
product use (see C.3). If the measured EO and ECH doses from simulated use are not more than 4 mg or
9 mg respectively, go to C.2.9. Otherwise, reduce EO and/or ECH.
C.2.7 For prolonged exposure devices (those contacting the patient for more than 24 h up to 30 d), proceed
as follows.
If the measured EO and/or ECH are not more than 60 mg, go to C.2.6 c). Otherwise, use appropriate
temperatures (either 37°C or 25 DC) and times (based on anticipated use time) with water as the extracting
medium to simulate product use (see C.3). If the measured EO and ECH dose, where ECH has been found, is
not more than 60 mg, go to C.2.6 c). Otherwise, reduce EO and/or ECH.
C.2.S For limited exposure devices (those contacting the patient for up to 24 h), proceed as follows.
If the measured EO and ECH residues are not more than 4 mg and 9 mg, respectively, go to C.2.9.
Otherwise, use appropriate temperatures (either 37°C or 25 DC) and times (based on anticipated use time,
5) An exhaustive extraction procedure may be impractical for these products, in which case proceed directly to the
simulated-use procedure.
6} An exhaustive or simulated-use extraction procedure as specified in Table E.1 and defined in 3.1 and 3.2 is necessary
for determining EO residues. The analyst verifies and documents the procedure used. For very large products, an
exhaustive extraction procedure may be impractical. In such cases, continue at C.2.6 and follow the requirement to use a
simulated-use procedure for the appropriate duration category.
© ISO 2008 All rights reserved 21

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
but with a minimum of 1 h) with water as the extracting medium to simulate product use (see C.3). If the
measured EO and ECH doses from simulated use are not more than 4 mg and 9 mg, respectively, go to
C.2.9. Otherwise reduce EO and/or ECH.
C.2.9 The device shall not be irritating with the amount of EO and ECH to be allowed on the device at
release. If the device is a surface-contacting device or an implantable device, this means that the tolerable
contact limits (TCl) for EO and ECH shall not exceed 10 IJg/cm2 and 5 mg/cm 2, respectively, or that the
device shall have negligible irritation as specified in ISO 10993-10. Otherwise, the evaluation of the device
according to this part of ISO 10993 has been completed 7).
C.3 Simulated-use extraction procedure
C.3.1 Extraction fluid
Water should be used for simulated-use extraction of EO residues (see [92]).
C.3.2 Extraction temperature
Extract devices wholly or in part in contact with the body during use at 37°C and extract devices having no
immediate body contact during use (e.g., hypodermic syringes) at 25 °e. When devices are extracted at
37°C, evaluate the conversion of EO to EG.
C.3.3 Extraction time
Consider the expected reasonable worst case range of times over which the device use is recommended or
expected when establishing extraction times. In addition, it may be useful to collect data to establish the
extraction rate of EO and ECH from the device at the use temperature established in C.3.2 (4.4.6.2). Evaluate
these data or other pertinent information to determine an extraction time appropriate for the device that takes
into account the available data. The minimum extraction time is one hour.
C.3.4 Extraction of device
Where pre-treatment of the device is required prior to use, perform this pre-treatment before the device is

extracted. Where the device is filled for extraction, do this in a manner that eliminates entrained air pockets.
Extract the device with water at the temperature and for the time established. Where use of the device
involves circulation of fluids (e.g., blood, dialyser fluid), extract the device using water to simulate the fluid's
circulating in a manner consistent with product use. Note that where blood is returned from the device to the
patient, it must be assumed that any EO residuals will stay in the body. Hence, water simulating blood passing
from a device into a patient should not be recirculated. Document the rationale for the conditions established.
C.3.5 Grouping of devices
Devices of similar design but different sizes may be grouped and the worst case selected for testing as
representative of the group. Document the rationale for this decision.
C.3.S Device kits and trays
Initially determine residues for each EO- and ECH-absorbing patient-contact device in kits and trays, and
establish the worst-case device or devices. Additional data can then be collected using such worst cases.
Document the rationale for the decision.
7) Meeting both the biological testing requirements for each individually designed medical device as indicated in
ISO 10993-1 and the EO-sterilization process residual limits form the justification that an EO-sterilized device is
acceptable for use with regard to its biological evaluation.
22 © ISO 2008 - All rights reseNed

@
en
o
N
o
o
ex>
cO'
::T
Ui
Cil(f)
CD
:<CD
a.
N
(".)
."
tEo
r::...,
('!)
(')
~
."
0'
:5£
(')
'::J'
QJ
::l
....o
QJ
(J)
(J)
iii" ....
...--.. ::::::J
() c:
g ::s
~Q.
::::J <'D
 c:: ...,
('1) (J)
QS"
o :::s
::::JQ.
11 :;"
cQ'CC
c:: ....
(ti::T
en <'D
O!e. • C'D
1'\.)"0
CU (J)
::::J ::s Q(f)
0 0
• <'D
~~
QJ
-<....o
w
"'C
"C
-<....::T
a)"
"0
QJ
::1.
o
- en
o
~
o
to
(0
W
No
Consider alternative
sterilization methods
and materials
This standard does not apply. "'FmnklVp,e exposure limitations
No patient contad a
d Exhaustive extraction.
occupational health
Reduce EO
Reduce ECH c
ECH found.
EO limit 0,5 Fg/lens/day,
not to exceed 1,25
b For other intraocular devices, prorate limits
on a mass basis, assuming mass of tOl =20 mg.
Consider ECH levels for intraocular devices
made from viscoelastic materials containing
chlorine. For devices made with such materials,
ocular toxicity results from ECH levels four
times those of EO,
(j)
o
...:a.
o(.0
(J)
W
I
......
N
o
o
.£e
!!!
en
m
z
en
o
...:a.
o
fD
CD
W
I
......
N
C
o
CO

N
.a::.
@
U;
o
N
o
o
CO
I
~
<0'
":::J
1ii
<ilC/l
(!)
<(!)
a..
."
us'C
'""II
(1)
("')
N
I
."
5'
=E
n
::r
III
;::+
8° :::::; III
~th
:::::;' (f)
c:: _.
CD~ Q _.
:::;.::J
o C
:3 ::J
'"'no.
i3' ~
c::~
ca III
::J
oQ.
~ :i'
Q)CQ
:::::;-
Q::r'
\) CD
o (f)
:::::;-
 ...... (1)
s· "0
c:: (f)
CD ::s
QCD
o n :::::; (1)
'"'n~
i3' Q)
 c:: '""II
":'\'<
(!j-
0 0
, III
~"O
"0
-<
- ::r'
en'
"0
III
;::+
o....
en
o
..:..
Q
CD
CD
(..)
~ No
No
Reduce EO
Reduce ECH c
Reduce EO
Reduce ECH c
Reduce EO
Reduce ECH c
Reduce EO
Reduce ECH c
Meets maximum allowable
EO residual limits of s 60 mg for EO and
45 mg for ECH
Meets maximum allowable
EO residual limits of 20 mg for EO and
S 9 mg for ECH
Meets maximum allowable
EO residual limits of S 4,6 mg for EO and
S 4,6 mg for ECH for each individual
blood purification device e
Lifetime total EO and
ECH may be exceeded.
eno
...:.
40
CD
U)
W
I
......
N
40
40
~
!!!
V'
m
z
en
o
..:..
o
CD
CD
W
I
......
N
40
oCX)

@
en
of',.)
800
I
~
-.
us'::J
Uf
Cilen
(1)
~a.
II\.)
Con
" to'
e:""I
(I)
0
w
I
"0"
~
0
:::r I No
I»
""!I
..........
0
I»
(I)
(I)
iii' .....
:i'
e:
...-..:3
(,)c.
a (I)
::::J ""I
s:!e.c::: I»
(J) :::l
0.9:
~::s
a tC
:3- ::r ..,.,(1)
c.Q'(I)
c:::<+ ':"l (I)
ct5"C
(I)
::::J
(I)
0
(I)
(I)
(I)
I»
~
.....
0
I»
"C
"C
-<.....::r
Cir
"C
I»
;:l
0
""""
en
0
...:..
<:)
U)
to
(..)
No
C If ECH found,
d Simulated-use extraction
or exhaustive extraction.
Determine EO and ECH c TCl
or conduct irritation test
(see ISO 10993-10)
No
Reduce EO
Reduce ECH c
Yes
No
No
C If ECH found.
Evaluation of the device
according to this part of ISO 10993 has
been and shown to
meet the specified therein
Meets TCl n'!rHlirAmpnt.::;
EO::; 10
ECH::;5
negligible
At the time of release .
(j5
o
..!lo.
o
(0
CD
(...)
I
.......
M
o
o
c.o
-!!J
en
m
z
Ci3
o...o
to
(.0
W
I
.......
tv
o
o
c.o

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Annex D
(i nformative)
Factors influencing product residual
0.1 Sterilization process parameters
D.1.1 General overview
Sterilization process parameters are defined in ISO 11135-1. However, to properly analyse residues in
EO-exposed devices, it is necessary to recognise those parameters that have an effect on residue content. An
understanding of EO kinetics may make it possible to address a family of like devices through the analysis of
a "worst-case" representative. Recognition of a family of similar products (that is, similar in size and use,
material composition, packaging, EO exposure, water content, and exposure to environmental conditions)
may preclude the necessity of analysing each item of the product line. The following parameters affect residue
content and may allow analysis of one or more "worst-case" representatives.
D.1.2 Material composition
Materials vary considerably in their ability to absorb, retain and release EO. When conversion of EO to ECH is
possible, two similar devices made of different materials are likely to have very different residue profiles. For
example, materials that contain a source of free chloride ions exhibit a wide degree of variation in the
concentration of ECH formed.
Similarly, a single device composed of two dissimilar materials may require a representative sample of both
materials to ensure accurate analysis. Composition and size may be particularly important when considering
the simulation of normal product use.
D.1.3 Packaging
Packaging materials vary widely in their abilities to allow penetration and dissipation both of EO gas and the
other possible residues, which may in turn affect ECH residue levels. Packing density and the density of the
shipping container are other sources of variability.
D.1.4 Ethylene oxide sterilization cycle
Process conditions under which the device is exposed to EO will affect the residue levels. These conditions
include gas concentration, exposure time, temperature, type of cycle (that is, pure EO or EO mixtures),
humidity (including the quality of the water source), re-evacuations and air wasi1es, and the product and load
density or the configuration of the product load in the sterilizer.
0.1.5 Aeration
Residual EO in devices may vary as a function of aeration temperature, load density and configuration, air
flow, loading pattern, surface area of products being aerated and aeration time. Some materials demonstrate
aeration rates which can roughly double (aeration time reduced by one half) for each 10°C increase in
aeration temperature.
Factors such as humidity, temperature, and air flow may influence ECH formation depending on EO content in
the product after removal from the sterilizer.
Analysts should be aware of seasonal variations in aeration rates when samples are stored under laboratory
conditions which differ from the ambient warehouse conditions. Under certain circumstances, which can best
be determined by experience, it may be necessary to hold samples prior to analysis under conditions that
approximate the lowest temperature at which the product is likely to be stored during aeration.
26 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
D.1.6 Sample retrieval
Caution should be exercised when product samples are routinely removed for analysis from the sterilization
load soon after the sterilization process is completed. Caution should also be exercised when the product
sample or an extract thereof is shipped to an analysis site remote from the sterilization site. In such cases, the
errors associated with attempting to correlate the residue amounts on samples and on the rest of the load
should be recognized and an experiment to establish the relationships between these conditions carried out.
0.2 Controlling variables
Given sufficient experimental evidence on residue diffusion kinetics (e.g .. the rate of EO gas dissipation from
the packaging for the range of given devices), it may be possible to group devices for quality assurance
testing based on similarities of materials, manufacturing processes and use. For such a classification system
to work, the variables discussed above must be controlled. Lack of control may yield data about residue levels
that are applicable only to the samples analysed.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 27

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Annex E
(i nformative)
Extraction conditions for determination of residual EO
Extraction conditions for the determination of residual EO to demonstrate compliance with this part of
ISO 10993 are shown in 4.4.
Table E.1 represents suggested extraction conditions that could facilitate laboratory operations.
Specific methods for simulated-use and exhaustive extraction are given in 4.4.6.2 and 4.4.6.3.
The guiding principle in selecting appropriate extraction methods for the determination of EO is the evaluation
of the dose to the patient in order to show compliance with the requirements set out in this part of ISO 10993,
using simulated use wherever possible. For devices in the prolonged exposure category, it is important to note
that the device must also meet the residue requirements of the limited exposure category, and that devices in
the permanent contact category must also meet the residue requirements of the prolonged exposure and
limited exposure categories, whichever extraction condition is used. Where residues are shown to be within
these requirements for products tested by exhaustive extraction, there is no need to further challenge the
device by simulated-use extraction.
Table E.1 - Suggested extraction conditions
Device contact duration
(see 4.3)
Permanent contact Prolonged exposure Limited exposure
(> 30 d) (24 h to 30 d) « 24 h)
Exhaustive extraction Simulated use Simulated use
Where an exhaustive extraction procedure as defined in 3.2 is specified it may be impractical for large and/or
complex devices. In such cases it may be necessary to extract representative portions of the device, then
extrapolate the results to the entire device. See also 4.4.6.
In certain exceptional situations where simulated-use extraction may be neither feasible nor practical (e.g., for
large, surface-contacting devices such as gowns or drapes), the dose of EO transferred to the patient may be
estimated on a weight- or surface-area-proportional basis using, for example, the transfer reduction factor
approach described in the section Exposure per use in [154].
28 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
Annex F
(informative)
ISO 1099J-7:2008(E)
Rationale for the provisions of this part of ISO 10993
F.1 General
This annex specifies the rationale for establishing allowable limits for ethylene oxide sterilization residues in
medical devices on the basis of duration of contact Included is the basis for establishing limits for ethylene
oxide (EO), ethylene chlorohydrin (ECH) and ethylene glycol (EG).
F.2 Rationale for special situations
F.2.1 General
There are certain circumstances, for example major surgery, where the life-saving nature of the therapy
significantly alters the risk-benefit analysis. The exposure limits given are based on risks and benefits
associated with less critical circumstances. Therefore, ISO 10993-17 allows for device benefit alterations in
allowable limits on a case-by-case basis. In consequence, there is scope for relaxation of limits in
life-threatening situations where it is not possible to meet the specified limits. Similarly, there may also be a
need to tighten limits where warranted by risks in specific situations.
During the development of this part of ISO 10993, six special situations were recognized in which the limits of
4.3 would not be practical due to limitations of the devices themselves, or in which human data indicated that
the dose levels shown in 4.3 are not applicable. Human data are available from patient exposure to intraocular
lenses which must be addressed by revision of the residue requirements for such devices. Blood cell
separators used in donor and patient blood collection can be used multiple times and donors and patients
have been shown to become sensitized to EO. Allowable limits for EO for these devices must be lowered to
minimize the possibility of sensitization. During treatment of blood with oxygenators or blood separators or
cardiopulmonary bypass devices it is recognised that the medical benefit outweighs the risk and this is
addressed in considering the allowable short-term limits for these devices. In the case of extracorporeal blood
purification set-ups, long-term use could potentially lead to the maximum lifetime dose requirement being
exceeded and this is also addressed. In the case of drapes contacting intact skin, no systemic toxicity is
anticipated and patient safety should be adequately protected by meeting the TCl or irritation test
requirements.
F.2.2 Intraocular lens limits
The residue limits for intraocular lenses (implant devices in the eye) is 0,5 ~g EO per lens per day. This limit is
not based on the permanent contact limit with an average daily dose of 0,1 mg (1 00 ~g) per day for a lifetime.
Rather, it is a special case in which the maximum delivered dose cannot exceed a ceiling value of 0,5 ~g per
lens per day. This is necessary to prevent documented irritation responses of EO to ocular tissue (see
References [43], [116], [117], [143] and [164]). Prorate limits are used for other intraocular devices on the
basis of the mass of the device, with the mass of an intraocular lens taken as 20 mg.
When EO residuals are controlled as specified here for intraocular devices, it is unlikely that significant
amounts of ECH will be present. This may not be true for intraocular devices made from viscoelastic materials
that contain chlorine. In such cases, References [43], [115], [116J and [117] indicate that the level of ECH that
results in ocular toxicity is about four times greater than the corresponding EO level. This should be taken into
account when evaluating the acceptability of ECH levels associated with these devices.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 29

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
F.2.3 Blood cell separators used in donor or patient blood collection
The maximum allowable limit for EO is 10 mg per device. The maximum allowable limit for ECH shall not
exceed 22 mg per device. These devices are used for apheresis collection. This limit takes into account the
multiple use of such devices in individual donors or patients.
In this case the default assumption of five devices used simultaneously appeared somewhat conservative. If
one were to assume only two devices as a reasonable worst case, the UTF would increase from 0,2 to 0,5.
This would raise the allowable limit to 10 mg EO (rounded down from 10,5 mg). See Equations F.1 and F.2.
For EO
TE=TlxMBxUTF 0,3 mg/kg/dx70 kgxO,5=10,5 mg
d
For ECH
TE TI xM B x UTF 0,64 mg/kg/d x 70 kg x 0,5 = 22,4 mg
d
F.2.4 Blood oxygenators and blood separators
(F.1 )
(F.2)
The exposure limit for such devices is 60 mg for EO and 45 mg for ECH in a 24 hour period. These devices
are used in severe operations such as open heart surgery. Such procedures are used on individual patients
no more than once or twice in a lifetime. Since these devices are used for a day or less, the default UTF of 0,2
appears overly conservative. A UTF of 1,0 appears more reasonable. At this UTF, the allowable limit would
increase to 21 mg EO and 45 mg ECH. See Equations F.3 and FA. The EO limit reflects manufacturer's
current ability to remove EO from these rather large devices. Under such circumstances this further three-fold
relaxation of the EO limit is warranted.
For EO
TE = Tlx MB x UTF = 0,3 mg/kg/d 70 kg 1 = 21 d
Given one day or less of use: 21 mg/d x 1 d =21 mg/device
For ECH
TE TI x MB x UTF 0,64 mg/kg/dx 70 kgx 1 = 44,8 mg
d
Given one day or less of use: 44,8 mg/d 1 d 44,8 mg/device
F.2.5 Devices used in cardiopulmonary bypass procedures
(F.3)
(FA)
The exposure limit for such devices is 20 mg for EO in a 24 hour period. These devices are used in severe
operations such as open heart surgery. Such procedures are used on individual patients no more than once or
twice in a lifetime. Since these devices are used for a day or less, the default utilization factor (UTF) of 0,2
appears overly conservative. A UTF of 1,0 appears more reasonable. At this UTF, the allowable limit would
increase to 21 mg EO. The EO limit reflects manufacturers' current ability to remove EO from these rather
large devices. Under such circumstances this 'further three-fold relaxation of the EO limit is warranted. The
limits for ECH apply.
30 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

EN ISO 10993-7:2008
For EO
TE=TlxMBxUTF 0,3 mg/kg/dx70 kgx1 21 mg
d
NOTE This is rounded to 20 mg/d for these devices.
Given one day or less of use: 20 mg/d x 1 d =20 mg/device
F.2.6 Extracorporeal blood purification devices
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
(F.5)
These devices are used in patients multiple times often over many years. In setting the allowable limits for
these devices, consideration is given to the benefit derived from blood purification. The maximum allowable
limit for each device used on a patient was set by considering the use of thirteen (13) such devices over each
month, and setting the maximum allowable limit as one thirteenth of the maximum allowable limit over 30 d,
which is 4,6 mg for EO and 4,6 mg for ECH. The maximum allowable EO dose of 2,5 9 for a lifetime may be

exceeded, provided that the allowable limit for EO of 4,6 mg for each use is met. In addition, the maximum
allowable ECH dose of 10 9 for a lifetime may be exceeded, provided that the allowable limit for ECH of
4,6 mg for each use is met. To exceed the 2,5 9 lifetime dose of a patient undergoing blood purification
would need to be exposed to 4,6 mg of EO thirteen times every month and such exposure would need to
continue for 3,5 years. Similarly, ECH lifetime exposure could be exceeded after about fourteen (14) years of
use by end-stage renal disease patients.
For EO:
Lifetime dose of 2,5 g = 2 500 mg.
Maximum allowable dose of EO from use of 13 extracorporeal blood purification devices per month is
60 mg.
So it will take 2 500 mg/(60 mg/month) = 42 months or about 3,5 years to reach the maximum allowable
lifetime EO dose for the use of such devices.
For ECH:
Lifetime dose of 10 g = 10 000 mg.
Maximum allowable dose of ECH from use of 13 extracorporeal blood purification devices per month is
60 mg.
So it will take 10000 mg/(60 mg/month) 167 months or about 14 years to reach the maximum allowable
lifetime ECH dose for the use of such devices.
F.2.7 Drapes contacting intact skin
Drapes that contact intact skin provide benefits to patients with minimal risk. Surgical drapes are used to
minimize the spread of infective agents to and from the patient, thereby contributing to a reduction in post-
operative infections. Medical devices that contact intact skin have not been shown to cause systemic toxicity.
The tolerable contact limit (TCl) values for EO and ECH are based on local toxic effects. Thus the TCl values
of 10 ~g/cm2 for EO and 5 mg/cm2 for ECH or the device having negligible irritation when tested according to
ISO 10993-10 are the appropriate binding limits for drapes that contact intact skin.
F.3 Rationale for 4.4
F.3.1 General
This clause provides the general rationale for each of the major parts of 4.4.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 31

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
F.3.2 Product extraction
The critical parameter in the regulation of EO-sterilization residues is the dose the patient or user may receive
from use of devices so sterilized. In order to assess this patient or user dose, extraction procedures are
required which simulate normal product use. In some cases, this may be achieved by simply filling the product
with water, whereas in other cases more complicated simulations including continuous fluid flow may be
required. It is recognised that, should the requirements be met by determining the total residue present in the
product, by exhaustive extraction, there may be no need to simulate product use.
The definition of exhaustive extraction used includes the concept that extraction should continue until the last
extraction step performed produces a yield of the analyte which is less than 10% of the yield of the analyte in
the first extraction of the sample. This concept fails when the yield of the first extraction is very small, as in the
case of a device with little residue or a sample that releases the analyte at a very slow rate. In such cases,
extraction should continue until the increase in the cumulative total of the analyte extracted in the several
extraction steps is small relative to the analytical uncertainties.
F .3.3 Analytical methods
F.3.3.1 Stability of EO in solution
Each laboratory should conduct its own stability study to determine the shelf life of its ethylene oxide residuals
standards. The effective standard should be not less than a specified percentage of the original concentration
upon the final day of the validated stability shelf life. Otherwise, all standards should be made on a daily basis.
During the interlaboratory comparison study of the EO method described in KA.4 (see [140]), a study was
made of the stability of standard solutions of EO in ethanol. Solutions of EO at concentrations of 25 IJg/ml,
50 IJg/ml and 100 IJg/ml were prepared and stored both at refrigerator temperature and at 40 ec. These
solutions were analysed at different times over periods of up to six weeks. The study showed that, at 40 ec ,
the EO concentration was reduced to 70 % of the original concentration after 2 weeks for the 50 IJg/ml and
100 IJg/ml standards, whereas all of the standards studied were stable to within 10 % of the original
concentration after storage at refrigerator temperature (5 ec) for up to 60 d.
F.3.3.2 Stability of ECH in solution
Prior to the interlaboratory comparison study of ECH, eleven laboratories participated in a study of the stability
of ECH standards. Aqueous solutions of ECH were prepared by one laboratory and shipped to all partiCipants.
The solutions were stored at refrigerator temperature upon arrival. These solutions were analysed at different
periods of time, such as immediately after arrival, 1 week after, and 2, 3, 4, 8 and 12 weeks after arrival, by
various types of column. The study showed that there is no significant difference in the concentration in the
first 2 weeks. It was concluded that ECH standard solutions are stable when stored at refrigerator temperature
for at least 14 d.
F.3.3.3 Linearity of standard curve
Ideally, the procedures described in this part of ISO 10993 would be applicable over the range of
concentrations required to meet the limits specified in 4.3. The method precision, detection limits, quantitation
limits, and the linearity of the calibration curve, should be validated.
F.3.4 Rationale for 4.4.7.1, data analysis and interpretation
The proper treatment of data is presented to permit the analyst to calculate the product residual level and from
this the potential dose to patient. This permits release of product based on conformance with the requirements
listed in 4.3.
32 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

G.1 General
1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
Annex G
(informative)
Establishment of allowable limits for EO
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
The approach described in ISO 10993-17 was used to derive limited, prolonged, and permanent tolerable
intake (TI) values for EO. Separate TI values were not calculated for various routes of exposure. The derived
TI values for EO were converted to allowable limit and device limit values and compared to the limits from
ISO 10993-7:1995. For the limited exposure category, the derived TI and corresponding device limit from the
evaluation presented herein have been accepted. For the prolonged and permanent contact categories, the
existing limits from the 1995 edition have been retained, although the derived TI values and corresponding
device limits from the evaluation presented herein support higher levels. The rationale for retaining the current
limits is the successful clinical history since adoption of the 1995 edition, and the ability of manufacturers to
comply with these limits. Concomitantly, there is no current clinical or manufacturing reason to raise the
existing limits for the prolonged and permanent categories to the levels supported by the evaluation described
herein.
A limited/prolonged exposure category TI of 0,3 mg/kg/d was derived based on the results in References [S2],
(S3], [S4], [169], [170] and [171]. Data from these studies were previously used as support for the prolonged
exposure limit for EO. A modifying factor (MF) of 30 was applied to the data, based on a UF1 of 30 to account
for interindividual variability and a UF2 of 1 to account for interspecies difference in potency. Justification is
provided for the selection of values for UF1 and UF2.
A permanent exposure category TI of 0,02 mg/kg/d was derived based on cancer effects and was derived
using dose-response modelling of human data. Other approaches for cancer risk assessment were also
explored for derivation of the cancer-based TI. A permanent non-cancer TI of 0,03 mg/kg/d can be derived
based on the adverse effects on spermatogenesis seen after long-term inhalation exposure of cynomolgus
monkeys to EO (see References [107], [10S] and (109]) and an MF of 60. The MF used to derive the
permanent exposure non-cancer TI includes a UF3 for LOAEL-to-NOAEL extrapolation.
G.2 Introduction
Since the publication of the first edition of this part of ISO 10993 in 1995, new data have become available on
the adverse effects of EO in humans and experimental animals. In addition, data have become available to
reduce uncertainty in assessing the relative sensitivity of humans and experimental animals to this compound
and the variability of response within the human population to EO. Furthermore, new tools (e.g., benchmark
dose and physiologically based pharmacokinetic modelling) have become available to assist in more
accurately assessing the risk posed by exposure to EO. This risk assessment serves as the basis for the
selection of TI used in this part of ISO 10993.
G.3 Methods
G.3.1 General
The approach described in ISO 10993-17 was used to derive TI values for EO for various durations of
exposure.
The potential exists for patients to be exposed to EO released from medical devices for short or long
durations; as a result, it was necessary to derive limited/prolonged and permanent TI values for this
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 33

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
compound. In addition, it is possible for patients to be exposed to EO via various routes of exposure. Although
patients are typically exposed to EO via parenteral routes of exposure in clinical settings, very little toxicity
data are available to derive TI values for these routes of exposure. In contrast, there is a large database of
data available on the effects of EO in experimental animals and humans following inhalation exposure. To use
this rich resource of inhalation toxicity data for setting parenteral TI values for EO, a method was developed
for route-to-route extrapolation to derive estimates of internal dose following inhalation exposure.
G.3.2 Route-to-route extrapolation of dose
A fairly large number of toxicity studies have been conducted on EO; however, relatively few of these were
conducted using parenteral routes of exposure. Nevertheless, the extent to which EO is absorbed following
inhalation exposure is known; therefore, it should be possible to estimate the internal dose of EO based on
knowledge of the exposure concentration of EO and the extent to which the compound is absorbed via the
respi ratory tract.
Absorbed dose can also be estimated based on knowledge of the exposure concentration, ventilation rate in
the exposed species, duration of exposure, and extent of absorption via the inhalation route. Using the data in
References [186] and [22], estimates of the relative absorption of airborne EO at various exposure
concentrations were established (Table G.1).
Table G.1 - Absorbed dose of EO in rats
exposed to various concentrations of EO in air
Exposure concentration Percent absorbed
(ppm) %
10 94
33 74
50 68
100 61
1 000 36
Calculation of absorbed dose in cynomolgus monkeys is based on the mean ventilation rate (0,83 m3/d)
derived from the values reported by Fished 52] for methanol-exposed cynomolgus monkeys.
G.3.3 Non-cancer risk assessment approach
TI values for non-cancer effects of EO were derived by dividing the most relevant NOAEL or LOAEL values
from critical studies by uncertainty factors to account for data on the variability in response to EO in human
populations (UF1), potential species difference in potency (UF2) and data deficiencies (UF3). ISO 10993-17
emphasises the use of scientific data, when available, to derive uncertainty factors applied to the data from
key toxicity studies when deriving TI values. Consistent with this philosophy, data on the variability in
response to EO in human populations and on the potency of EO across species was used in deriving values
for UF1 and UF2, respectively. Factors that were taken into account when selecting a value for UF1 include
the polymorphic expression of the enzymes that metabolize EO in the human population, the ability of various
disease states to inhibit these enzymes, and variability in the ability to repair DNA damage. Consideration of
these factors resulted in the selection of a value for UF1 that is greater than the default value of 10 that is
typically used for this parameter. In contrast, scientific data and the results of physiologically based
pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modelling suggest that the potency of EO varies little across species and therefore a
value of less than 10 is appropriate for UF2, compared to the default of 10 that is typically used for this
parameter.
34 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
G.3.4 Cancer risk assessment approach
Application of a weight-of-evidence test indicates that EO is a genotoxic carcinogen and that tumours seen in
animals are relevant for humans. ISO 10993-17 allows for various approaches to be considered when deriving
a cancer-based TI value for a genotoxic carcinogen. Accordingly, cancer-based TI values have been derived
using multiple approaches, namely, simple linear extrapolation from tile LOAEL, application of UFs to the
LOAEL, and application of dose-response modelling.
G.3.S Effects not considered in deriving TI values for EO
The TI values for EO based on cancer or non-cancer effects are not necessarily protective for immunological
effects such as hypersensitivity reactions and anaphylaxis, nor are they necessarily protective for effects such
as haemolysis. Other approaches may be necessary to protect patients against these effects that have been
associated with exposure to EO.
G.4 Non-cancer-based values for EO
G.4.1 Overview
Derivation of a non-cancer-based TI value for EO involves:
selection of appropriate NOAEL and LOAEL values from the literature and
selection of uncertainty factors to account for interindividual variability in the human population,
interspecies differences in potency and deficiencies in the data.
These steps are described in G.4.2 and G.4.3, respectively.
G.4.2 Selection of critical studies
G.4.2.1 Limited/prolonged exposure category
Adequate single-dose toxicity data are not available to establish a limited exposure category TI for EO.
However, ISO 10993-17 notes: all available data should be considered in the context of understanding the
overall toxicity profile of the substance. The basic approach is that acute data (for example data from studies
of 14 d or less) should be used to set limited exposure or short-term limits.
Therefore, data from longer-term studies were used to establish the limited exposure category TI.
Table G.2 summarises the most relevant data for the derivation of the limited/prolonged exposure category TI
for EO; however, it should be noted that many studies other than those listed in following tables were
reviewed in the process of setting TI values for EO.
Woodard and Woodard[203] described a study in which dogs received SC injections of EO at doses of
6 mg/kg, 18 mg/kg and 54 mg/kg (later adjusted to 36 mg/kg) for 30 consecutive days; however, because of
the small number of animals used, these results cannot be used with confidence to establish the
limited/prolonged TI.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 35

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Table G.2 - Studies used to derive limited/prolonged exposure category TI for EO
NOAEL LOAEL
Species Route Exposure (mg/kg/d) Effects at LOAEL Study
(mg/kg/d)
Weight loss,
Dog SC 6, 18 or 54 mg/kg daily x 30 d 6 18 coagulation changes, [203]
increased liver, kidney
and spleen weights
Rabbit IV 9,18 and 36 mg/kg daily on GO 4~16 9 18 Decreased maternal [82]
weight gain
Rats Inhalation 10, 33 or 100 ~g/kg 6 hid on GO 6-15 9 27,5 Depression of foetal [169]
body weight
A similar NOAEL value for EO was derived from the inhalation study conducted by Snellings[169]. Decreased
foetal body weight was observed following exposure of pregnant Fischer 344 rats to 100 ppm EO for 6 hId on
days 6 to 15 of gestation. No adverse effects were seen following exposure to 33 ppm EO. Using the
absorbed dose data from the study in Reference [22], the absorbed dose equivalent to 33 ppm in
Reference [169] is
33 ppm x 1,8 mg/m3/ppm x 0,29 m3/d 6/24 x 0,74/0,35 kg =9,1 mg/kg/d
Identical NOAEL values in the studies in References [82] and [169] increase the confidence in using this value
as the basis for the limited/prolonged exposure category TI values.
G.4.2.2 Permanent exposure category
The lowest absorbed dose associated with adverse non-cancer effects following long-term inhalation
exposure of experimental animals to EO is 2,0 mg/kg/d, based on the results reported by Lynch[1071. These
investigators exposed cynomolgus monkeys to 0 ppm EO, 50 ppm EO or 100 ppm EO for 7 hId, 5 d/week for
24 months. Statistically significant decreases in sperm counts and sperm motility were seen in both
EO-exposed groups, compared to controls.
Based on the mean ventilation rate measured in methanol-exposed cynomolgus monkeys in the Fisher et a/.
study[52] and the assumption that the percent of EO absorbed at 50 ppm is the same in rats and monkeys, the
absorbed dose following exposure to 50 ppm EO is
50 ppm x 1,8 mg/m3/ppm x 0,83 m3/d x 7/24 x 5/7 x 0,68/5,3 kg = 2,0 mg/kg/d
The effects on sperm count and motility seen in the Lynch study are consistent with those seen in EO-
exposed humans [5] and with other sperm parameters reported in experimental animals (e.g.
Reference [128]). Furthermore, statistically significant decreases in sperm count, motility or morphology are
considered to be adverse effects for the purpose of setting exposure limits for compounds (see
References [126] and [188]). Finally, there is no mechanistic reason to suggest that the results seen in
cynomolgus monkeys would not be relevant for humans. As a result, it is valid to use the results reported in

Reference [107] to derive a permanent parenteral TI for EO based on non-cancer effects.
36 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
G.4.3 Selection of uncertainty factors for non-cancer effects
See Table G.3.
Table G.3 - Uncertainty factors for TI derivation
Uncertainty factor designation Range Magnitude of Description
default UF
To account for the variability in response between
UF1, inter-individual variability in the 1 to 10 10 the mean of the healthy population and the
human population response in some proportion of a sensitive
subpopulation.
To account for the possibility that humans are
UF2, inter-species extrapolation 1 to 10 10 more sensitive to the adverse effects of a
compound than experimental animals are.
To account for limitations in the toxicological data
UF3, quality and relevance of the available for TI derivation, including absence of
experimental data 1 to 100 None NOAEL value, absence of NOAEL from a
long-term study, and lack of data from a clinically
relevant route of exposure.
G.4.3.1 Inter-individual variability (U F1)
G.4.3.1.1 Overview
ISO 10993-17 notes that it is preferable to have actual data to assess human variation in order to define the
magnitude of the value selected for UF1. Fortunately, data are available to characterize the variability of the
response to EO of various biomarkers in human populations, primarily in occupational cohorts. For example,
Fuchs[54] observed "remarkable individual differences in susceptibility" in EO-exposed workers to single strand
breaks of DNA in peripheral mononuclear blood cells. These investigators identified two subpopulations
among workers occupationally exposed to EO, a "higher sensitive" group and a "lower sensitive" group.
Among non-smokers in the lower sensitive group, the lowest concentration of EO (4 hour TWA) associated
with DNA single strand breaks was 3,5 mg/m3 . Among non-smokers in the higher sensitive group, the lowest
concentration of EO associated with DNA single strand breaks was 0,6 mg/m 3 . Therefore, a UF1 value of at
least 6 (3,6/0,6) is necessary to protect sensitive individuals in the Uhigher sensitive" group from this specific
genotoxic effect. Various factors may be responsible for this variability in response to including
polymorphic expression of the enzymes responsible for EO metabolism (the theta 1 isoform of glutathione
transferase and epoxide hydrolase), and variability in DNA repair mechanisms. In addition, there are factors
that may increase the sensitivity of critically ill and injured patients to the adverse effects of EO, relative to the
general population, such as inhibition of metabolic enzymes that playa role in the detoxification of EO and
reduction in the levels of co-factors necessary for the enzyme reactions to occur (e.g., glutathione).
Consequently, the variability seen in response to EO in the general population may not necessarily reflect the
response variability seen in a patient population. Therefore, the variability in response seen in the healthy
adult populations occupationally exposed to EO (see [54]) may under-represent the variability seen among
patients exposed to EO.
Each of the factors that may playa role in contributing to variability in the human population to adverse effects
associated with EO exposure will be explored in this section for the purpose of identifying a value for UF1 that
will be appropriately protective for sensitive subpopulations.
G.4.3.1.2 Polymorphism of EO detoxification enzymes
G.4.3.1.2.1 General considerations
Ethylene oxide is metabolized, and consequently, detoxified, in rodents and humans by two enzymes: the
theta 1 isoform of glutathione transferase (GSTT1) and epoxide hydrolase (EH). Both of these enzymes are
polymorphically expressed in the human population (e.g. References [182], [183] and [184]). A consequence
of these polymorph isms is that a certain percentage of the human population is expected to have a reduced
capacity to metabolize EO, relative to the rest of the population. Since EO is detoxified by these enzymes, one
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 37

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
would expect poor metabolizers of EO to be at increased risk of adverse effects, relative to the rest of the
population, Considerable attention has been paid to the role G8TT1 polymorphism may have in the variability
in response seen in human populations to EO (e.g. Reference [50]). However, EO is primarily metabolized by
EH in humans; consequently it may be assumed that G8TT1 polymorphism is not expected to influence the
variability in response of the human population to a significant degree. Despite the assumed principal role of
EH to the metabolism of EO in humans, little attention has been paid to the potential role of EH polymorphism
or inhibition on EO metabolism and, subsequently, on the risk posed by exposure to EO. The impact of
polymorph isms of G8TT1 and EH on the response to EO in the human population is discussed G.4.3.1.2.2
and G.4,3.1.2.3.
G.4.3.1.2.2 Role of GSTT1 polymorphism in the variability of the response of the human population to
EO
The frequency of the G8TT1 null genotype can be as high as 54 % in some populations (see Reference [6]),
but most papers report values in the 17 % to 25 % range (e.g. Reference [158]), depending on the population.
8ince the G8TT1 null genotype is associated with reduced G8TT1 enzyme activity, a significant percentage of
the population may be at increased risk of EO-associated adverse effects.
The G8TT1 null genotype exerts a specific influence on levels of haemoglobin adducts in EO-exposed
individuals (see Table G.4).
Table G.4 - Effect of GSTT1 polymorphism on haemoglobin adduct levels
in conjugator vs. non-conjugator populations
Study Mean difference in response between GSTT1 +
and GSTT1 null populations
[53] 3
[130] 2
[182] 1,5
[50] 1,5
[205] 2,1
The results shown in Table G.4 suggest that populations with a G8TT1 null genotype have a 1,5- to 3-fold
higher internal dose of EO; however, comparison of the mean difference between the two populations will
underestimate the difference between the dose associated with the mean response in a G8TT1 + and a lower-
bound percentile of the G8TT1 null population.
Although the data show a clear dependence of G8TT1 expression on levels of haemoglobin adducts in EO-
exposed persons, the data on the influence of G8TT1 polymorphism on induction of 8CE are mixed. Hallier[64]
reported that induction of SCE in peripheral lymphocytes of GSTT1 null individuals was much greater than
that in GSTT1; however, Schroder[163] and Wiencke[202] reported very modest increases in background SCE
levels in G8TT1 null individuals compared to those with a G8TT1 genotype. In aggregate, these results
suggest that G8TT1 polymorphism leads to increased levels of Hgb adducts, but only modestly increases the
genotoxic effects of EO in poor conjugators.
It is important to note that the G8TT1 null genotype is associated with an increased risk of some cancers
(e.g" References [48] and [207]), but not necessarily with cancers associated with ethylene oxide exposure.
G.4.3.1.2.3 Role of EH polymorphism in the variability of the response of the human population to EO
8imilarly to G8TT1, the expression of EH is polymorphically expressed in the human population (see
References [69] and [144]), as a result, variability in EH activity in humans can be significant. For example,
Mertes[123] found a 63-fold variability in the metabolism of EH substrates by human liver samples; however,
90 % of the samples deviated by less than a factor of 3 from the median. Kitteringham et 81,[90] have
summarized the impact that EH polymorphism has on EH activity in the human population and they note:
38 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
"To generalize from these studies, it appears that no individual is entirely deficient in HYL 1 [microsomal
epoxide hydrolase], but there does exist some degree of intersubject variation in hepatic activity, although
the majority of the population would be encompassed by a 10-fold range."
If the entire range of EH activity in the human population (including poor metabolizers and rapid metabolizers)
can be encompassed by a factor of 10, the difference in activity between the mean of the population and most
poor metabolizers can probably be described by a factor of 5, depending on the shape of the distribution.
The variability in EH activity seen in the human population has been associated with an increased risk of
some cancers, but not necessarily with cancers associated with EO exposure. For example, McGlynn et
al.[121] have observed a 2-fold increase of hepatocellular carcinomas in a Chinese population with a
polymorphism that results in lower EH activity. In addition, reduced ability to metabolize epoxides via epoxide
hydrolase has been associated with an increased risk of foetal hydantoin syndrome and other toxicities
associated with the use of anticonvulsants (see Reference [93]). Presumably, since EO is detoxified by the EH
pathway, individuals with reduced EH activity as a result of reduced polymorphic expression of the enzyme
could be at increased risk of EO-associated adverse effects relative to individuals in the population that
metabolizes epoxides efficiently.
G.4.3.1.3 Inhibition of EO detoxification enzymes
G.4.3.1.3.1 Inhibition in disease states
Epoxide hydrolase activity is inhibited during certain disease states, such as endotoxemia and traumatic
shock. Administration of bacterial endotoxin to rats inhibited both EH activity (see Reference [49]) and EH
gene expression (see Reference [36]). Microsomal EH was inhibited approximately 50 % in an animal model
of trauma (see Reference [60]). Presumably, the metabolism of EO could be impaired in disease states that
result in reduced EH capacity.
G.4.3.1.3.2 Inhibition by drugs and other compounds
The anticonvulsant drugs, valproic acid and valpromide, have been shown to inhibit EH activity in humans at
therapeutic concentrations[881, This inhibition is thought to playa role in the increased teratogenicity seen
following co-exposure to valproic acid and other antiseizure drugs in patients with epilepsy.
Significance of enzyme inhibition
The physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model of EO developed by Fennell and Brown[51} can be
used to specifically assess the impact of GSTT1 and EH inhibition on the internal dose of EO. A sensitivity
analysis conducted by these investigators of the impact that each parameter has on modelled venous blood
concentrations of EO revealed that the changes in the values for the GST V max parameter in the model had a
significant impact on venous blood concentration of EO in mice and rats, but not humans. Conversely,
changes in the values for the EH V max parameter in the model had a significant impact on venous blood
concentration of EO in humans, but not mice and rats. The sensitivity coefficient for the EH V max parameter in
humans was about -0,4 %. Therefore, for every 1 % reduction in the value for the EH V max parameter, the
venous blood concentration of EO would be expected to increase by 0,4 %. Consequently, the 50 % inhibition
of EH that may occur in some disease states (e.g., trauma, sepsis), would be associated with a 20 % increase
in venous blood concentration of EO. Inhibition of GSTT1 would be expected to have little impact on venous
blood concentrations of EO in humans. Therefore, although inhibition of EH can lead to important clinical
consequences (e.g., drug interactions), the impact of EH inhibition on estimated internal doses of EO in
humans can be accounted for by a factor of 2 or less, based on the results of the PBPK modelling exercise.
G.4.3.1.4 Glutathione levels
Detoxification of EO via the GSTT1 pathway requires sufficient levels of endogenous glutathione to be
available in the tissues as a co-factor. A number of studies have shown that critically iii or post-operative
patients typically have lower tissue levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) than healthy persons. For example,
Wernerman[197] found that surgery and critical illness reduce glutathione levels by 40 %. As a result, critically
ill patients could be at increased risk of developing EO-associated effects, compared to healthy persons.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 39

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
G.4.3.1.5 Polymorphism of DNA repair capacity
Another pharmacodynamic factor, polymorphism in genes associated with DNA repair, as well as carcinogen
metabolism, can have an impact on cancer risk (see Reference [73]). Presumably, individuals with inefficient
DNA repair mechanisms may be at higher risk of EO-associated adverse effects than most individuals in the
general population. Some experimental data exist to support this assertion. Nivard[138] found up to 20-fold
enhanced mutation rates in the absence of maternal nucleotide excision repair (NER) in Drosophila exposed
to high concentrations of EO compared to repair proficient conditions. However, this increased mutation rate
was not seen in Drosophila at lower doses. Therefore, although inefficient DNA repair may place some
individuals at increased risk of EO-associated adverse effects, it is not possible to assess DNA repair
polymorphism data in a quantitative manner to identify a value for UF1 for EO.
Aggregate variability
As discussed above, various pharmacokinetic factors can result in a reduced capacity to metabolize and
subsequently to detoxify EO in some patients. These factors include polymorphic expression of GSTT1 and
EH, inhibition of EH by drugs and other compounds, and reduced EH activity in certain disease states. In
addition, various pharmacodynamic factors, such as lower levels of glutathione in tissues of critically ill
patients and polymorphism in DNA repair capacity may make the target tissues of some individuals more
susceptible to damage by EO. It is not possible to use these data in a quantitative way to select a value for
UF1; however, these factors, when viewed in aggregate, may inform the process of selecting a UF to
characterize inter-individual variability in response to EO.
It is possible to justify a value for UF1 of at least 6, based on the variability present in the haemoglobin
biomarker data reported by Fuchs[54J; however, this value probably under-represents the difference in
sensitivity between the mean response in a healthy population and the response of sensitive individuals in a
population of critically ill patients.
Knudsen[91] considered the impact of multiple factors that influence metabolic capacity on the magnitude of
the UF to account for inter-individual variability and noted:
"In risk assessment the safety 'factor' of 10 is generally accepted to allow for variation in individual
susceptibility. Reviewing the literature justifies the factor of 10 when considering single polymorph isms.
However in an individual with several susceptible metabolism genotypes as well as other determinants of
susceptibility, e.g. defective DNA repair, poor-nutritional state, etc. the risk may increase far above a
safety factor of 10."
The combined effect of these factors is unknown; however, the data collectively suggest that a value for UF1
that is greater than the default of 10 would be appropriate. As a result, it appears that the most sensitive
populations would be adequately protected by a UF1 of 30 to account for inter-individual variability.
G.4.3.2 Inter-species differences (UF2)
G.4.3.2.1 Overview
Before species differences in potency are considered when deriving a value for UF2, it is important to ask
whether the results seen in experimental animals exposed to EO are relevant for humans. As discussed in
G.4.2.1 and G.4.2.2, the critical endpOints for TI derivation for EO are reduced weight gain in rabbits
(limited/prolonged exposure category LOAEL) and altered spermatogenesis and testicular effects in
cynomolgus monkeys (prolonged exposure category LOAEL for non-cancer effects). Reduced weight gain in
experimental animals is a general effect that is considered to be adverse and relevant for establishing TI
values. Spermatogenesis in non-human primates is organizationally similar to the process that occurs in
humans, with regard to length of the spermatogenesis cycle, duration of spermatogenesis, and number of
mitotic divisions (see References [124] and [195]). Consequently, non-human primates have been described
as an appropriate model for experimental studies of human spermatogenesis. By analogy, it can be assumed
that EO-induced effects on this process seen in cynomolgus monkeys would be applicable for humans. Since
EO is thought to exert its carcinogenic effect as a direct acting genotoxic carcinogen, the effects seen in
experimental animals are directly applicable for humans.
40 © ISO 2008 All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
;SO 10993-7:2008(E)
Based on allometric principles, humans are assumed to be more sensitive to the adverse effects of chemical
compounds than experimental animals (see Reference [127]). As a result, a default UF of 10 is recommended
in ISO 10993-17 to account for the assumed difference in potency of a compound between experimental
animals and humans. However, several lines of evidence suggest that the potency of ethylene oxide is
equivalent among species. As described in more detail below, the results of physiologically based
pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modelling suggest that an internal dose in mice, rats and humans is expected to be
the same following inhalation exposure to a given concentration of EO. The results of the PBPK modelling
exercise are supported by data on species equivalence in internal dose of EO and similar compounds

(propylene oxide, styrene oxide) following inhalation exposure. These factors all support the selection of a
value of 1 for UF2 for use in deriving TI values for EO.
G.4.3.2.2 Results of PBPK modelling
Using the PBPK model mentioned previously, Fennell and Brown[51] found that estimated internal doses of
EO [area under the curve (AUC) in blood] were equivalent in mice, rats and humans following inhalation of low
concentrations of EO for 6 h (Table G.5).
Table G.S - Estimated internal dose following inhalation of EO
Species
EO concentration
(ppm) AUC (mg x h/l)
Mouse Rat Human
1 0,044 0,059 0,056
10 0,44 0,59 0,57
Species similarities in response
Using haemoglobin adduct levels as an index of internal dose, Ehrenberg and Tornqvist[45] found that the
increment in adduct levels was consistent across species exposed to the same concentration of EO. Similarly,
the internal dose of EO from exposure to the same EO concentration was similar across species (Table G.6).
Table G.6 - Inter-species comparisons of internal dose of EO[45]
Dose metric Species
Mouse Rat Human
HOEtVal adduct increment 12 16 12
from 1 ppmh
Dose in blood
(IJMh ppm- 1)
0,5 0,35 0,3
Cross species comparison of potency for similar epoxides
Segerback[165] reported that in vivo DNA adduct levels following inhalation exposure to propylene oxide were
equivalent across species. From a pharmacodynamic perspective, Bjorge et a/J23] found similar levels of
Single strand DNA breaks in isolated human and rat testicular cells exposed in vitro to styrene oxide. Given
the similarities in structure and mechanism of action between propylene oxide, styrene oxide and EO, these
findings lend support to the conclusion that EO is equipotent across species.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 41

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008{E)
G.4.3.2.3 Species differences in DNA repair rates
DNA repair appears to proceed at similar rates across species, lending further support to the selection of a
value of 1 for UF2. For example, human and rat cells repair DNA lesions produced by methyl
methanesulfonate (MMS) at similar rates (see Reference [142]). Since EO and MMS exert effects on germ
cells via a similar mechanism (see Reference [192]), it can be assumed that DNA repair rates for EO will be
equivalent across species.
Based on similarities across species in modelled or measured internal dose of EO following exposure to the
same concentration of EO, and species similarities in DNA repair rates, scientific justification exists for
selecting a value of 1 for the UF2 parameter.
G.4.3.3 Quality and relevance of experimental data (UF3)
UF3 accounts for limitations in the toxicological data available for TI derivation, including absence of NOAEL
value, absence of NOAEL from a long-term study, and lack of data from a clinically relevant route of exposure.
Use of route-to-route extrapolation approaches to address the lack of data from Clinically relevant routes of
exposure was covered in G.3 and should not be explicitly used to derive a value for UF3. However, a value for
UF3 is needed to address the lack of a NOAEL value in Reference [107].
In the absence of experimental data to define a NOAEL value in cynomolgus monkeys, one approach to
estimate this value would be to:
estimate the internal dose of EO at the NOAEL in mice;
scale this dose to an equivalent internal dose in cynomOlgus monkeys;
compare the values.
Based on the results in Reference [186], the internal dose corresponding to exposure of rats to 10 ppm EO for
6 h is 2,7 mg/kg. The estimated internal dose of EO in cynomolgus monkeys following exposure to EO for 6 h
at the LOAEL in Reference [107] is 3,3 mglkg (not normalized for 5 d exposure per week). Since EO doses
are assumed to scale across species as a direct function of body weight, the ratio of the internal dose at the
monkey LOAEL and the internal dose at the rat NOAEL is 3,3/2,7 =1,2. This ratio is valid assuming
pharmacodynamic equivalence in response of sperm among species to the effects of EO.
Therefore, a UF of 3 applied to the LOAEL should be adequate in estimating the NOAEL in Reference [107].
This value is consistent with the LOAEL-to-NOAEL UF of 3 applied by the US FDA (2000) to derive the
parenteral TI value for DEHP. Further, Abdel-Rahman and Kadry[3] found a median ratio of 3,5 for the oral
LOAEL-to-NOAEL ratios for 24 chemicals and reported with 96 % of the ratios below 10. Consequently, there
is direct scientific support for a UF of 3 applied to the LOAEL reported in Reference [107] for derivation of a TI
for EO and there are precedents for the selection of this value.
G.4.4 Derivation of non-cancer TI values for EO
Justification is provided above to support the selection of the following values for each of the uncertainty
factors necessary to derive a non-cancer TI for EO:
UF1 inter-individual variability 30
UF2 inter-species extrapolation
UF3 data deficiency 3 (if NOAEL is lacking)
As a result, the aggregate MF to be used when a NOAEL is available is 30 and 90 when only a LOAEL is
available.
42 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Application of the selected MFs to the NOAEL or LOAEL values from the critical studies yields the non-cancer
TI values for EO shown in Table G.7.
Table G.7 - Derivation of non-cancer TI
(limited/prolonged exposure category)
NOAELILOAEL UF
Study (mg/kg/d)
[1691 9 (I\JOAEL) 30
[82] 9 (NOAEL) 30
[1071 2 (LOAEL) 90
G.S Cancer~based TI values for EO
G.5.1 General overview
TI
(mg/kg/d)
0,3
0,3
0,02
ISO 10993-17 offers flexibility in selecting the approach that is most appropriate for setting a cancer-based TI,
depending on the available data and regulatory norms. Since EO exerts its carcinogenic effects via a
genotoxic mechanism, a linear extrapolation approach is generally considered to be the most appropriate
method to estimate low-dose risks. This linear extrapolation approach can employ statistical, dose-response
models to estimate the dose associated with a given risk in humans at low doses or can involve simple linear
extrapolation from the lowest dose associated with increased cancer risk in humans or experimental animals
to the dose associated with zero risk. Alternatively, a LOAEL or NOAELlUF approach, similar to that used for
non-cancer risk assessment, has been advocated by some regulatory agencies, particularly those in Europe.
Finally, a non-linear, biologically based approach for EO risk assessment has been proposed, but this
approach has not been fully validated or accepted.
Cancer-based TI values for EO have been derived using the following approaches:
linear extrapolation from human data;
linear extrapolation from animal data;
application of UFs to LOAEL values;
dose-response modelling.
G.S.2 Approach 1: Linear extrapolation from human data
Gaylor[56] calculated an excess incidence rate of leukaemia of 0,043 in workers in Reference [71] exposed to
20 ppm EO for an average of 3,9 years.
Absorbed dose associated with 0,043 excess cancer risk:
20 ppm >< 1,8 mg/m3/ppm >< 10 m3 /d >< 0,8 (absorption factor) >< 5/7 -;- 70 kg ::: 2,94 mg/kg/d
Unit cancer risk:
0,043/2,94 mg/kg/d = 0,015 (mg/kg/d)-1
Dose associated with 10-4 excess cancer risk:
10-4/0,015 (mg/kg/d)-1 ::: 0,006 7 mg/kg/d.
© ISO 2008 All rights reserved 43

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
G.5.3 Approach 2: Linear extrapolation from animal data
An increased incidence of leukaemia was noted in male rats at both exposure doses in Reference [108]. The
excess incidence of leukaemia in low dose (50 ppm) rats was 0,072 (0,11 in exposed vs. 0,038 in control).
The absorbed dose at this exposure concentration was:
50 ppm x 1,8 mg/m3/ppm x 0,29 m3/d x 0,68 (absorption factor) x 5/7 x 7/24 -;- 0,35 kg 10,56 mg/kg/d
Unit cancer risk:
0,072/10,56 mg/kg/d = 0,006 8 (mg/kg/d)-1
Dose associated with 10-4 excess cancer risk:
10-4 /0,006 8 (mg/kg/d)-1 = 0,015 mg/kg/d.
G.5.4 Approach 3: Uncertainty factor approach
An increased incidence of leukaemia, brain tumours and mesothelioma was observed in rats exposed to
33 ppm of EO for 2 y in References [172] and [173]. This exposure concentration is equivalent to:
33 ppm x 1,8 mg/m3/ppm x 0,29 m3/d x 0,68 x 5/7 x 6/24 0,35 = 6,0 mg/kg/d
Application of an MF of 90 to this LOAEL dose yields a cancer-based TI of 0,07 mg/kg/d.
G.5.S Approach 4: Linear dose-response modelling of human data
ISO 10993-17 instructs that when human data are available to assess the risk posed by exposure of patients
to a carcinogenic compound, these data are preferred over animal data. Seilken and Valdez-Flores[166]
derived inhalation unit risk values (risk associated with exposure to 1 ~g/m3 EO) using a modelling approach
of the dose-response data in the Union Carbide Corporation (UCC)[181] and the U.S. National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)[176] datasheets. See Table G.8.
Table G.B - Equivalent dose associated with 10-4 risk based on unit risk values derived
by Reference [166]
Unit risk Equivalent dose associated with 10- 4 risk a
Data set (llg /m3 t 1 (mg/kg/d)
UCC 5,1 x 10-7 0,020
NIOSH 5,8 x 10-7 0,019
a Conversion to mg/kg/d based on assumed ventilation rate of 10 m3/d for a 5-day working
week, and a body weight of 70 kg.
G.S.6 Comparison of cancer-based TI value
See Table G.9.
Table G.9 - Comparison of cancer-based TI values for EO
Approach Cancer-based TI (mg/kg/d)
Approach 1: Linear extrapolation (human data) a 0,007
Approach 2: Linear extrapolation (animal data) a 0,015
Approach 3: Uncertainty factor (animal data) b 0,07
Approach 4: Linear dose-response modelling (human data) a 0,020
a Based on 10-4 excess cancer risk
b Based on MF of 90
44 © ISO 2008 All rights reserved

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
The cancer-based TI values derived using Approaches 1, 2 and 4 range from 0,007 to 0,02 mg/kg/d. The
cancer based TI derived using Approach 4 was calculated using dose-response modelling and presumably is
a more accurate representation of the dose-response relationship in humans. The TI derived using
Approach 4 serves as the basis for the cancer-based TI.
Data from Reference [54] support the selection of this cancer-based TI. In this study, the lowest concentration
of EO associated with DNA single strand breaks in workers in the "higher sensitive" group was 0,6 mg/m3.
This EO concentration is equivalent to an absorbed dose of:
0,6 mg/m3 x 10 m3/d ~ 70 kg = 0,085 mg/kg/d
A cancer-based TI of 0,02 mg/kg/d should be adequate to protect against genotoxic effects in a sensitive
population.
G.S.7 Comparison of TI values for EO
ISO 10993-17 instructs the user to compare non-cancer- and cancer-based TI values and select the lower
value as the basis of the permanent exposure category TI. See Table G.1 O.
Table G.10 - Comparison of non-cancer- and cancer-based TI values for EO
TI
Approach (mg/kg/d)
Cancer-based
Linear dose-response modelling (human data) 0,020
Non-cancer permanent
Uncertainty factor (Lynch et al.,[107] 1982 data) 0,022
As shown in Table G.1 0, the non-cancer- and cancer-based TI values for the permanent exposure category
are essentially identical.
G.G Calculation of tolerable exposure (TE) levels
G.S.1 Tolerable exposure TE
TI values are modified to account for the manner in which a particular device is used and to enable practical
calculation of individual device limits. The tolerable exposure (TE) is the product of the TI, body mass (mb),
and a utilization factor (UTF):
TE = TI x mb x UTF
The body mass factor commonly used in the absence of speci'fic patient population information is 70 kg.
The utilization factor UTF is the product of a factor that accounts for exposure to EO from several devices, or
a concomitant exposure factor (CEF), and a factor .to proportionally account for situations where a device is
not used for the entire duration period, termed a proportional exposure factor (PEF):
UTF CEF x PEF
In the absence of specific information, default values for the CEF and PEF correspond to 0,2 and 1,0
respectively.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 45

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
1S0 10993-7:2008(E)
G.S.2 limited exposure TE
TE = 0,30 mg/kg/d x 70 kg x 0,2
TE equals 4,2 mg/d, rounded down for ease in calculating individual device limits to 4 mg/d.
Therefore, the average daily dose of EO would not exceed 4 mg/d (see G.1).
G.S.3 Prolonged exposure TE
TE 0,30 mg/kg/d x 70 kg x 0,2
TE equals 4,2 mg/d, rounded down for ease in calculating individual device limits to 4 mg/d.
Therefore, the average daily dose of EO would not exceed 4 mg/d. The current limit of 2,0 mg/d has been
retained.
G.6A Permanent exposure TE
TE 0,02 mg/kg/d x 70 kg x 0,2
TE equals 0,28 mg/d, rounded down for ease in calculating individual device limits to 0,3 mg/d.
Therefore, the average daily dose of EO would not exceed 0,3 mg/d. As noted in 4.3.2, the current limit of
0,1 mg/d has been retained.
G.S.S Calculation of Tolerable Contact Limit (TCl)
G.6.5.1 Rationale
Because EO can be irritating, calculation of a TCl is relevant. A TCl is necessary for EO-sterilized surface-
contacting and implantable devices. The approach described in ISO 10993-17 was used to derive TCl values
for EO.
G.6.S.2 Selection of critical studies
A number of studies (References [12], [117], [168] and [179]) contain dose-response data that may be used to
derive a TCl for EO.
Matsumoto[117] EO sterilized segments of cardiac and urinary catheters and allowed them to aerate for 6 h,
24 h, 48 h, 72 h, 96 h or 168 h. The amount of EO remaining on the catheters was determined following
aqueous extraction for three days. Two-centimetre sections of the catheters were implanted subcutaneously in
rats and the animals were sacrificed at 24 h, 48 h, 72 hand 1 week after implantation. The Nil and Mil on the
cardiac catheter was 0,46 and 1,02 mg EO/gm catheter, respectively.
Andersen[12] also conducted a study of EO-induced irritation from implanted materials; however, the amount
of EO in the material was determined by the difference in weight before and at various times after sterilization.
Because of the imprecision of this technique, these data will not be used to derive a TCl for EO.
Shupack[168] examined the local effects of EO-sterilized patches affixed to backs of human volunteers. The
material that produced effects at the lowest levels of EO was a PVC block. Irritation was seen following
contact with PVC blocks containing EO at 893 ppm. A Nil was not reported in the study for PVC blocks. The
blocks used in the study weighed 719 mg, so the Mil is equivalent to 0,642 mg EO
(0,893 mg EO/gm material 0,719 gm PVC). Two square centimetres of material was in contact with the skin,
so the Mil for this study expressed on a surface area basis was 0,32 mg/cm2 (321 IJg/cm2).
46 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Tanaka[179] conducted a dermal irritation study of EO-impregnated gauze patches, in rabbits. The highest
dose that did not produce irritation was 0,75 mg/patch. The surface area of the patch was 1,77 cm2 , so the
Nil expressed on a surface area basis was 0,424 mg/cm2 (424 ~g/cm2).
Anand[11] saturated a cotton pellet with 0,5 ml of an EO solution, then placed the pellet in the cheek pouch of
a hamster. Following a 4 h exposure, the highest concentration of EO that did not produce irritation after a
14 d observation period was 2 500 ~g/ml. Since the effective surface area of a hamster cheek pouch is about
1,5 cm2 , the Nil expressed on a surface area basis is 833 ~g/cm2.
The Nil values obtained from these studies are summarised in Table G.11.
Table G.11 - Comparison of studies of irritation effects of EO
Study Device/material NIL or MIL
(~g/cm2)
[117J Cardiac catheter 103
[168] PVC block 321
[179] e patch 424
[11 J 833
G.S.5.3 Selection of uncertainty factors for TCl derivation
As in the derivation of TI values for EO, uncertainty factors are used in the derivation of a Tel to account for
inter-individual variability in the human population in the irritant response to a compound (UF4), inter-species
differences in response to an irritant (UF5) and for deficiencies in the data (UF6).
G.S.5.4 Inter-individual variability (UF4)
Data are not available to establish a compound-specific UF4 for EO. Although the variability in the human
population to a given dose of various contact irritants has been well established (e.g. Reference [21]), these
data are not sufficient to provide support for a default value for U F4. Nevertheless, inter-individual variability is
assumed to be minimal for the effects seen after implantation of EO-sterilized materials. Somewhat more
variability can be expected for dermal contacting materials, especially if the skin is not intact. As a result, an
UF4 value of 3 will be used to derive the Tel for EO when the irritation data are obtained from implantation or
mucosal contact studies and an UF4 value of 5 when the studies involve EO effects on skin.
G.S.5.5 Inter-species differences (UF5)
Data are not readily available to derive a compound-specific UF5 value for EO. However, it is assumed that
species-specific responses do not occur for the local effects produced by especially for implanted
materials. Therefore, a value of 1 will be used for UF5.
G.S.5.S Data deficiencies
Various tissues differ in their relative sensitivity to local irritant effects. Therefore, the potential exists for EO-
sterilized devices to come into contact with tissues (e.g., brain parenchyma) that may be more sensitive to the
effects of EO than the sites used in the studies that are available for derivation of the TeL. A factor of 3 is
employed to account for the potential that EO-sterilized materials may come into contact with sensitive
tissues.

A Nil value was not identified in Reference [168]. A factor of 2 was used to account for the lack of a NIL.
As noted in ISO 10993-17, the critical concept in deriving either a TI or a Tel for a compound is "dose-to-
patient" or bio-available dose. When local irritation studies are conducted by placing the material in contact
with the skin or mucosa, a certain amount of the EO can remain in the device and a certain amount can be
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 47

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
volatilized, Either of these processes result in less EO being available to produce the irritant effect at the
target tissue site. Data are not available on the bio-available dose of EO in Reference [11], [168] or [179], but
it will be assumed that 50 % of the dose reaches the target site. As a result, a factor of 2 will be used to
account for questions about bio-available dose in these studies.
Exposure in [11] took place for 4 h only; however, the potential exists for EO-sterilized materials to be in
contact with tissues for more than 4 h. A factor of 2 was used to account for the potential that adverse effects
could have been seen at lower doses of EO in contact with tissues for a longer period.
The UF4, UF5 and UF6 values applied to each study, the resulting MF, and the corresponding TCl values,
are presented in Table G.12.
Table G.12 -Uncertainty factors and modifying factors derived for
studies of the irritation of EO and the Tel derived from these data
NIl/Mil Tel
Study Site UF4 UF5 UF6 MF
(1J9/ cm2 ) (1J9/ cm2 )
[117] Implantation 103 3 1 3 10 10,3
[168] Dermal 321 5 1 12 60 5A
[179] Dermal 424 5 1 6 30 14,1
[11] Mucosa 833 3 1 12 36 23,1
Based on the values derived from these four diverse studies and considering the clinical relevance of the
contacting tissues (mucosa and implantation), the lower TCl of 10 ~g/cm2 will be adequately protective for
EO-induced local effects in various tissues.
G.7 Calculation of allowable limits
The allowable limit (Al) is the largest amount of EO deemed acceptable as a result of exposure from a
medical device, and is expressed in units of milligrams per day. Allowable limits are readily converted to
individual device limits and these calculations are highlighted in Clause G.8. The Al is the product of the TE
and a benefit factor BF:
Al = TE x BF
The benefit factor BF is appropriate in some instances where exposure to a particular leachable substance or
residue is unavoidable upon use of a medical device, and there is significant health benefit arising from use of
that particular medical device. Because there is no readily quantifiable and/or significant health benefit arising
from use of EO-sterilized devices (as opposed to that device sterilized in an alternative manner), the BF is set
at 1, except for some specific device categories discussed separately in Annex F. Therefore, for all exposure
duration categories, the allowable limit is equal to the tolerable exposure value unless otherwise specified in
Annex F.
G.a Calculation of device limits
G.8.1 General considerations
The maximum amount of EO, expressed as mass from a medical device, is the product of the allowable limit,
Al, and the number of days a device may be used in the specific exposure duration categories:
mdev, cat = Al days in category
48 © ISO 2008 All rights reserved

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
G.8.2 Limited contact devices
Medical devices in the limited exposure category may be used for up to 1 d:
mdev, Imt 4,0 mg/d x 1 d == 4 mg
G.8.3 Prolonged contact devices
Medical devices in the prolonged exposure category may be used from 2 d to 30 d. If the Al for the prolonged
category derived herein were used, then the device limit would correspond to
l11dev, prol == 4,0 mg/d x 30 d == 120 mg
However, the current limit of 2,0 mg/d has been retained and therefore, the prolonged device limit
corresponds to
mdev, prol = 2,0 mg/d x 30 d = 60 mg
In addition, the maximum dose of EO should not exceed 4,0 mg in anyone-day period.
G.8.4 Permanent contact devices
Medical devices in the permanent exposure category may be used from 31 d to 25 000 d. If the Al for the
permanent category derived herein were used, then the device limit would correspond to
l11dev, perm = 0,28 mg/d x 25 000 d = 7,0 9
However, the current limit of 0,1 mg/d has been retained and therefore, the permanent device limit
corresponds to
mdev, perm 0,1 mg/d x 25 000 d =2,5 9
In addition, the maximum dose of EO should not exceed 60 mg in the first 30 d, or 4 mg in anyone-day
period.
G.8.S Limit based on Tel value
For surface-contacting devices, a Tel-based limit is relevant. The formula for calculation of a mass limit
based on the Tel is as follows:
sse =Tel x A
where
l11dev, sse is the mass per device, i.e. maximum dose to patient, in milligrams;
Tel is the tolerable contact limit, in milligrams per square centimetre;
A is the surface area of medical device in contact with the body, in square centimetres.
Therefore, for individual devices, the approximate area in square centimetres would be multiplied by the Tel
of 10 IJg/cm2 to arrive at the device limit.
EXAMPLE Device surface area in contact with the body 100 cm2:
mdev, sse 10 I-lg/cm2 x 100 cm2 = 1 mg
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 49

ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
H.1 General
1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
Annex H
(informative)
Establishment of allowable limits for ECH
The acute toxicity data and repeated dose data demonstrate that ECH is readily accessible to the systemic
circulation following skin, oral and parenteral exposure. Inspection of median lethal dosages (LD50) and no-
observed-adverse-effect levels (NOAELs) also suggests that the potency of ECH at specific time intervals,
limited exposure, prolonged and permanent, is comparable by oral and parenteral routes of exposure. Based
upon data generated in subchronic and chronic toxicity studies, ECH does not appear to become more potent
as the duration of exposure is increased. While ECH is not notable for its target organ toxicity, specific target
organ effects can vary with route and duration of exposure. The allowable daily dose limits that are discussed
in the reactions that follow reflect these general observations. For the prolonged and permanent contact
categories, the existing limits from the 1995 standard have been retained, although the derived TI values and
corresponding device limits from the evaluation presented herein support higher levels. The rationale for
retaining the current limits is the successful clinical history since adoption of the 1995 standard, and the ability
of manufacturers to comply with these limits. Concomitantly, there is no current clinical or manufacturing
reason to raise the existing limits for the prolonged and permanent categories to the levels supported by the
evaluation described herein.
H.2 Introduction
The residue limits for ECH in medical devices contained in this annex were established using the methodology
outlined in Clause 4 of ISO 10993-17:2002 to establish the Tolerable Intake (TI). The limits for ECH in medical
devices were established based upon the evaluation of many literature reports. Acute toxicity data, target
organ effects data and animal chronic toxicity data were deemed the most appropriate for the derivation of the
limits themselves as discussed in H.4.
H.3 Methods
H.3.1 Overview
The approach described in ISO 10993-17 was used to derive TI values for ECH for various durations of
exposure.
The potential exists for patients to be exposed to ECH released from medical devices for limited to permanent
duration due to the extent of medical device exposure. As a result, it was necessary to derive separate limited,
prolonged and permanent TI values for this compound. Although patients are typically exposed to ECH via
parenteral routes of exposure in clinical settings, very little toxicity data are available to derive TI values for
these routes of exposure. In contrast, there is a database available on the effects of ECH in experimental
animals.
H.3.2 Route-to-route extrapolation of dose
There are limited data which reference the ECH exposure to patients via the inhalation route. ECH exposure
results from the derivitization of EO to ECH with the addition of a chlorine molecule and therefore exists due to
environmental factors. A route-to-route extrapolation of dose was not conducted as part of this risk
assessment for ECH.
50 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993~7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
H.3.3 Non-cancer risk assessment approach
TI values for non-cancer effects of ECH were derived by dividing the most relevant NOAEL or LOAEL values
from critical studies by uncertainty factors to account for data on the variability in response to EO in human
populations (UF1), potential species difference in potency (UF2) and data deficiencies (UF3). ISO 10993-17
emphasizes the use of scientific data, when available, to derive uncertainty factors applied to the data from
key toxicity studies when deriving TI values. Consistent with this philosophy, data on the variability in
response to ECH in human populations and on the potency of ECH across species was used in deriving
values for UF1 and UF2, respectively.
H.3.4 Cancer risk assessment approach
ECH has exhibited no potential to produce cancer in bioassays in animals and is not considered a possible
human carcinogen by regulatory agencies or consensus groups. A cancer-based TI value was not calculated
for ECH as part of this assessment.
H.3.S Effects not considered in deriving TI values for ECH
It should be noted that the TI values for ECH based on non-cancer effects are not necessarily protective for
immunological effects such as hypersensitivity reactions and anaphylaxis, nor are they necessarily protective
for effects such as haemolysis. Other approaches may be necessary to protect patients against these effects
that have been associated with exposure to ECH.
H.4 Non-cancer-based TI values for ECH
H.4.1 Selection of critical studies
H.4.1.1 limited exposure limit
The allowable limit (AL) for the limited exposure limit of ECH for the duration of less than 24 h is 9 mg/d. This
limit is based on the data collected from a subchronic intraperitoneal injection study in rats for 30 d of
6,4 mg/kg ECH as the no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) (see Reference [103]). This dose was
derived from a one-tenth dose level of a previously conducted study by the same investigators, which led to
an LD50 value of 64 mg/kg (see Reference [102]). Similar acute toxicity LD50 results were reported by several
investigators (References [104], [116], [159]. [162], [194] and [203]) in several species by various routes of
administration. Acute toxicity data, including median lethal dosages (LD so ), were available and evaluated,
although they were not appropriate for this assessment. The LD50 data are summarised in Table H.1.
Inspection of the data in Table H.1 suggests that the toxicity of ECH for limited exposure, i.e. less than 24 hi is
nearly identical regardless of the route of exposure and is relatively similar across species.
Since the data reflect LD50 values in Table H.1, and not a NOAEL or a LOAEL, then the value determined as
the no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) provided by Reference [103] was used as previously indicated.
In that study, the dose of 6,4 mg/kg/d was chosen by the investigators to represent a one-tenth of the LDso
value in the original acute study. The subchronic study was successful in establishing a no-effect level and the
value of 6,4 mg/kg/d was used here in conjunction with the guidelines of ISO 10993-17 to formulate the
allowable limit (AL) for ECH using the appropriate uncertainty factors and modifying factors:
NOAEL = 6,4 mg/kg/d
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 51

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Table H.i - Median lethal doses (LD50) for limited exposure allowable limit for ECH
Oral LD50 Intravenous LD50 Intraperitoneal LD50 Subcutaneous LD50 Other LD50
(mg/kg) (mg/kg) (mg/kg) (mg/kg) (mg/kg)
rat: 44
rat: 50 rat: 58
rat: 60 rat 60
rabbit: 60 rat: 63
rat: 70 rat: 64
rat: 71,3 rat: 67 rat: 70 rat 60
rat: 72 rabbit: 80 rabbit: 80 rat: 72 Skin
mouse: 80 rat: 84 rabbit: 84,6 rabbit: 100 rabbit: 67,8
mouse: 81,4 rat: 100 guinea pig: 85 mouse: 120 guinea pig: 84
mouse: 91 rat 110 guinea pig: 85,5 mouse: 150
mouse: 95 mouse: 120 rabbit: 90
guinea pig: 110
mouse: 97
mouse: 150 mouse: 98,4
mouse: 180 mouse: 120
mouse: 130
Uncertainty factors (UFs):
UF1 (inter-individual variation among humans) 10
UF2 (inter-species variation) =
UF3 (quality/relevance of the data) =
A default value of UF1 =10 for inter-individual variation among humans is used since the value is derived
from the median value in animals and the assumption is that there would be similar variation among humans.
A value of UF2 = 1 for the interspecies variation is based on the understanding from References [80] and [81]
indicating that low concentrations of ECH are detoxified in the liver by glutathione conjugation to
S-carboxymethlyglutathione. Detoxification is maintained as long as sufficient concentrations of glutathione
are present. At higher exposures of ECH, glutathione concentrations would be depleted leading to a general
overt toxicity. Since animals and humans have this same mechanism of detoxification and the concentration of
6,4 mg/kg/d results in a NOAEL, then the value of UF2 is appropriately set at 1.
A value of UF3 = 1 is appropriately set due to the relevance and strength of the data.
a) Modifying factor (MF):
MF =UF1 x UF2 x UF3 or
MF=10x1x1=10
TI NOAELlMF, or TI = 6,4 mg/kg/d/10 0,64 mg/kg/d
52 © ISO 2008 All rights reserved

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
b) Utilization factor (UTF):
- UTF = CEF (concomitant exposure factor) x PEF (proportional exposure factor)
- CEF 0,2
PEF:: 1
UTF:: 0,2 x 1 :: 0,2
c) Tolerable exposure (TE):
- TE = TI x BW x UTF
- TE =0,64 mg/kg/d x 70 kg x 0,2 =9 mg/d
d) Allowable limit (AL):
This indent includes the use of a benefit factor (BF), which is performed by applying ISO 10993-17 on a
case-by-case basis. In this case achieving the TE is feasible for ECH and therefore the BF is defaulted to
equal a value of 1. The calculation for the allowable limit is as follows:
Allowable Limit:: TE x BF
AL :: 9 x 1 :: 9 mg/d for less than 24 h exposure
The limit is acceptable in the context of I\lOAELs derived from the subchronic/reproductive toxicity data
based on the low NOAEL of6,4 mg/kg/d for a 70 kg adult for repeated administration.
H.4.1.2 Prolonged exposure limit
The AL for the exposure for 24 h to 30 d is 3,8 mg/d, not to exceed 9 mg/d in any given day or 114 mg in a
30 d period (3,8 mg x 30 d). This limit was based upon subchronic toxicity and reproductive effects data
(teratogenicity) generated in several species. These data have been reported by many investigators
(References [8], [10], [18], [38], [83], [85], [103], [145] and [203]). In repeated-dose, oral and parenteral
studies lasting for varying time periods up to 403 days, ECH produced a variety of adverse effects including
death (accompanied by increased relative organ masses, darkened mottled liver, haemorrhagic adrenals,
haemorrhagic pituitary gland, haemorrhagic gastrointestinal tract, myocarditis, thyroid congestion and
congestive pulmonary changes in one study). Additionally, ECH produced decreased body mass and growth,
increased brain, adrenal, kidney, lung and thyroid mass, small testes or testicular injury, emesis, decreased
haemoglobin, packed cell value and haematocrit, liver injury, ectopic haematopoiesis and bone marrow
hypercellularity, and a shift in white blood cells towards lymphocytes. Dosages ranged from about 2,7 mg/kg/d
to 93 mg/kg/d or more. Reproductive studies were solely teratology studies in which ECH was administered
during various time periods of gestation. In these studies, ECH produced maternal toxicity, foetal toxicity and,
in one study, an increase in foetal malformations. This latter effect was observed only in the offspring of mice
given ECH intravenously at a dosage of 120 mg/kg/d, a dosage well into the acutely lethal range (see
Reference [80]). The data that became the basis for the calculation of the limit for prolonged exposure are
summarized in Table H.2.
© ISO 2008 All rights reserved 53

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Table H.2 - Data used to establish prolonged exposure limit for ECH
Oral NOAEL Parenteral NOAEL
Study type mg/kg/d mg/kg/d
[Reference] [Reference]
Subchronic 13 2,7 prorated from 6,4 three times weekly
[145] [103]
50 9
Re prod uctive
[38] [83]
Inspection of these data suggests that I\JOAELs of ECH for prolonged exposure periods, i.e. 1 d to 30 d, are
comparable regardless of the route or specific target organ or reproductive effects. Animals may be more
sensitive to the general systemic toxicity of ECH than to its ability to produce adverse changes to
reproduction. A subchronic study performed by Lawrence et 81)103] used the one-tenth dose of 6,4 mg/kg/d,
which was calculated from the LDso dose in their original study previously reported as 64 mg/kg. The study
revealed that 6,4 mg/kg/d of ECH delivered 3 days per week for 30 d resulted in a calculated NOAEL for
parenteral administration of 2,7 mg/kg/d. This dose in rats was used as the basis of the calculation of the
allowable limit for prolonged exposure as follows:
NOAEL = 6,4 mg/kg/d x 3 d/7 d =2,7 mg/kg/d
Uncertainty Factors (UFs):
UF1 (inter-individual variation among humans) = 10
UF2 (inter-species variation) =
UF3 (quality/relevance of the data)
Uncertainty factors used in this subclause are the same as previously used for the section on limited exposure
since the date and rationales are the same.
a) Modifying factor (MF):

MF = UF1 x UF2 x UF3
- MF = 10 x 1 x 1 =10
- TI =NOAELlMF, or TI =2,7 mg/kg/d/1 0 = 0,27 mg/kg/d
b) Utilization factor (UTF):
UTF CEF (concomitant exposure factor) x PEF (proportional exposure factor)
- CEF =0,2
PEF = 1
- UTF = 0,2 x 1 = 0,2
c) Tolerable exposure (TE):
- TE =TI/MF x BW x UTF
TE =0,27 mg/kg/d x 70 kg x 0,2 = 3,8 mg/d
54 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
d) Allowable limit (AL):
This indent includes the use of a benefit factor (BF), which is performed by applying ISO 10993-17 on a
case by case basis. In this case, achieving the TE is feasible for ECH and therefore the BF is defaulted to
equal a value of 1. The calculation for the allowable limit is as follows:
Allowable Limit = TE x BF
AL = 3,8 x 1 = 3,8 mg/d within a 30 d period
This limit is considered to be adequately protective for a 70 kg man in light of the observation that ECH
does not increase in toxicity after chronic vs. prolonged exposure. The limit is based on animal data.
H.4.1.3 Permanent exposu re limit
The allowable limit for permanent exposure of 30 d or more to life is 10 g, not to exceed 9 mg/d in any given
day or 114 mg in a month. This limit was based upon chronic toxicity, genotoxicity and carcinogenicity data
that has been reported in References (81], [116] and [133]. In these studies, rats received ECH in drinking
water until 24 months of age, rats received ECH by subcutaneous injection twice weekly for at least a year
and rats and mice received ECH by dermal application for 103 weeks to 104 weeks. Dosages ranged from
0,086 mg/kg/d to 71 mg/kg/d or more. In these studies, no increases in tumour incidence related to ECH
administration or evidence of chronic toxicity with the exception of a possible reduction in survival rates were
found (see Reference [81 D. The key data that became the basis for the calculation of prospective permanent
exposure limits are summarised in Table H.3.
Inspection of these data suggests that the NOAEL for ECH for permanent exposure periods, I.e. 30 d to life,
by oral and parenteral routes are comparable. These data are also comparable to those generated in
subchronic and reproductive toxicity studies. Animals are more sensitive to the general systemic toxicity of
ECH than to its potential, if any, to produce cancer.
Table H.3 - Data used to establish permanent exposure limit for ECH
Study type Oral NOAEL Parenteral NOAEL Dermal NOAEL
4 x LOAEL 2,9 prorated from 10 twice weekly
Chronic No Data
[81] [116]
71 prorated from 100 five
16
Carcinogenicity No Data times weekly a
[81 ] [133]
a Ethylene chlorohydrin produced no increases in tumour incidence at the highest dosage tested.
The lowest-observed-adverse-effect level (LOAEL) for chronic toxicity, 2,9 mg/kg/d, administered
subcutaneously to rats for at least one year, and for tumour production, 16 mg/kg/d orally to rats until
24 months of age, was used for the calculation of a prospective permanent exposure allowable limit of 10 9 as
follows:
LOAEL = 2,9 mg/kg/d
Uncertainty factors (UFs):
UF1 (inter-individual variation among humans) = 10
UF2 (inter-species variation) = 10
UF3 (quality/relevance of the data) =
© ISO 2008 - All rights reseNed 55

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
A default value of U F1 = 10 for inter-individual variation among humans is used since the value is derived
from the median value in animals and the assumption is that there would be similar variation among humans.
A default value of UF2 10 for the inter-species variation is used since there is no clear understanding of the
long-term effects on the metabolic activity following ECH exposure in humans. It is thought that low
concentrations of ECH are detoxified in the liver by enzymatic glucuronidation to S-carboxymethlyglutathione
Reference [81]) but this is not sufficient to extrapolate to lifetime exposure.
A value of UF3 = 1 is appropriately set due to the relevance and strength of the data.
a) Modifying factor (MF):
MF UF1 x UF2 x UF3
MF = 10 x 10 x 1 = 100
TI =LOAEUMF, or 2,9 mg/kg/d/100 0,029 mg/kg/d
b) Utilization factor (UTF):
UTF = CEF (concomitant exposure factor) x PEF (proportional exposure factor)
CEF =0,2
PEF =1
UTF 0,2
c) Tolerable exposure (TE):
TE = TI/MF x BW x UTF
TE = 2,9 mg/kg/d/100 x 70 kg x 0,2 = 0,4 mg/d
d) Allowable limit (AL):
This indent includes the use of a benefit factor which is performed by applying ISO 10993-17 on a
case by case basis. In this case, achieving the TE is feasible for ECH and therefore the SF is defaulted to
equal a value of 1. The calculation for the allowable limit is as follows:
Allowable limit = TE x SF
AL = 9 x 1 = 9 mg in any given day, and
AL = 2,9 mg/kg/d/100 x 70 kg x 0,2 x 25 000 d = 10 g in a lifetime
Upon examination of these prospective limits, 9 mg/d and 10 g/Iifetime, it was determined that 9 mg/d would
be adequately protective of the adverse effects of ECH resulting from permanent exposure. The limit thus
provides at least a 100-fold safety margin for a 70 kg adult from the potential adverse effects of ECH resulting
from permanent exposure based on animal data.
56 © ISO 2008 All rights reserved

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
H.4.2 Selection of uncertainty factors for non-cancer effects
Table H.4 - Uncertainty factors for TI derivation
Uncertainty factor designation Range Magnitude of Description
default UF
To account for the variability in response
UF1, inter-individual variability in 1 to 10 10 between the mean of the healthy population
the human population and the response in some proportion of a
sensitive subpopulation
To account for the possibility that humans are
UF2, inter-species extrapolation 1 to 10 1 more sensitive to the adverse effects of a
compound than experimental animals are
To account for limitations in the toxicological
UF3, quality and relevance of the data available for TI derivation, including
1 to 100 1 absence of NOAEL value, absence of NOAEL
experimental data from a long-term study, and lack of data from
a clinically relevant route of exposure
H.5 Calculation of Tolerable Contact Limit (TCl)
There are limited published data available for the irritation effects of ECH. Calculation of a TCl is relevant. It is
assumed that a TCl derived limit is appropriate for surface-contacting devices and perhaps implantable
devices.
A study was conducted by Guess[61] in which dermal administration of undiluted ECH led to an insignificant
irritation response in a rabbit. Intradermal and intramuscular injection of ECH, however, led to strong irritation
response at the site of injection. Dilution of the ECH solutions to intradermal tissue and penile mucosa
resulted in a modulated response. At up to 80 % dilution there was no irritation response found by several
investigators (see References [59]. [61], [102] and [103]) showed that when ECH was administered dermally
in the rabbit model at a mean concentration of 68 mg/kg there was little effect on the lD so , but there was no
local irritation effect observed. It is suggested that this is due to an extremely rapid absorption rate of the
chemical which is then rapidly transformed in the liver to a toxic metabolite. Additional intradermal and Draze
eye irritation tests by these investigators resulted in high irritation score for undiluted ECH. However, ECH
solutions of 5 % and 1 % (by volume) showed little to no irritation, respectively. These data indicate that ECH
is highly irritating to intradermal and ocular tissues. As a result, a TCl and an intradermal TCl will be derived
for both non-irritating level (Nil) and minimally irritating level (Mil) concentrations of ECH, respectively.
The TCl is derived for ECH in the following manner. A modifying-factor approach is used to calculate the
TCl. This approach incorporates the use of uncertainty factors (see above) to provide an acceptable margin
of safety against irritation. The formula for calculating the TCl, in milligrams per square centimetre, using the
mOdifying-factor approach is
TCl = (Nil or Mil)
(MFTCl x A)
where
MFTCl
Nil
Mil
A
is the modifying factor (UF4 x UF5 x UF6);
is the non-irritating level, in milligrams;
is the minimally irritating level, in milligrams;
is the body contact surface area, in square centimetres.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 57

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Justification is provided above to support the selection of the following values for each of the uncertainty
factors necessary to derive a TCl:
UF4 inter-individual variability = 10
UF5 inter-species extrapolation =
UF6 data deficiency =
MFTCl 10 x 1 x 1 10
lawrence et ar[103] administered dermally to rabbits a maximum of 80 % solution of ECH in a volume of
0,2 ml per 3,27 cm 2 (0,5 in2) surface area. This is calculated to 160 mg of ECH per 3,27 cm 2 and resulted in
no observed irritation in the skin and therefore the observed non-irritating level (NI l):
!\Ill =80 % solution =0,2 ml x 80 g/100 ml = 160 mg dosed
Therefore, the TCl corresponds to:
TCl =160 mg/(1 a x 3,27 cm 2) =4,89 mg/cm 2
The TCl is thus considered to be 5 mg/cm2
A secondary intradermal irritation study in the rabbit was conducted by lawrence et a/JW3] using several
dilutions of ECH. In this study all dilutions caused dramatic local dermal irritation leading to local tissue
necrosis with minor exception. The dilutions of 1 % and 5 % ECH were both non-irritating and minimally
irritating (doubtful), respectively, according to the standard scoring method used. Trlis was suggested to be
due to the retention of ECH in the local area, which was subsequently not biotransformed and therefore led to
the toxic local tissue response. Not overlooking this, a secondary minimal irritation level (Mil) was calculated
from these intradermal doses:
Mil 0,5 % solution = 0,2 ml 5 g/1 00 ml = 10 mg of intradermal ECH
This means that intradermal exposure is non-irritating at a dose of 10 mg per animal. For this purpose we use
and approximation of 2,5 kg per rabbit. If we then apply the same uncertainty factors as the original TCl then
the following calculation will be for a man:
Intradermal TCl = rabbit dose (mg/kg)/MFTCl x 70 kg man
Intradermal TCl ((10 mg/2,5 kg)/100] x 70 kg man
Intradermal TCl = 17,5 mg/kg
This means that the intradermal Mil for a man would be 17,5 mg/kg.
58 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

1.1 Background
I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
Annex I
(informative)
Establishn1ent of allowable limits for EG 8)
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
The residue limits for EG in medical devices were established using the methodology outlined previously for
EO and ECH for non-cancer endpoints. EG is not a genotoxin (see References [171, [135] and [136]), it has
not exhibited any potential to produce cancer in animal bioassays (see Reference [41]), and it is not
considered a carcinogen (see References [135] and [136]). For these reasons and because for most materials
used in the manufacture of EO-sterilized medical devices conversion of EO to EG would not be significant, it
was not considered necessary to establish allowable limits for EG. This annex uses the same method as used
for establishing allowable limits for EO and ECH to show that the allowable limits for EG would be significantly
higher than those for EO and ECH and are not likely to be reached for most device materials.
Where certain natural materials (e.g., collagen, cotton, etc.) are incorporated in EO-sterilized medical devices
it is possible that extremely high concentrations of EG may be seen. The manufacturer is cautioned to
establish that, when such high EG levels are seen, this does not present a hazard to the patient or
compromise the performance of the medical device.
1.2 General considerations
1.2.1 Overview
The acute toxicity data and repeated dose data demonstrate that, although EG is not very potent, it is
accessible to the systemic circulation following oral and parenteral exposure. Inspection of median lethal
dosages (LD50s) and no-observed-effect levels (NOAELs) also suggests that the potency of EG at specific
time intervals, limited exposure, etc. is comparable by oral and parenteral routes. Based upon data generated
in subchronic and chronic toxiCity studies, EG does not appear to become more potent as the duration of
exposure is increased. The kidneys represent the primary target organ for EG.
1.2.2 limited exposure
EG does not represent a practical health hazard from exposure to medical devices for exposures less than
24 h in duration. This conclusion is based upon acute toxicity data generated in several animal species and
reports from the literature regarding poisoning following ingestion of EG or products containing EG in humans
(see References [85], [101], [116], [160], [162], [203] and [204]). There are also numerous reports regarding
human death resulting "from ingestion of EG. Based upon these data, the estimated lethal dosage in humans
of EG is 1,4 ml/kg (see Reference [160]) or about 111 g to an adult. However, as it is known that saturation of
human metabolism of EG occurs at 125 mg/kg (see References [20] and [148]) and that human data is always
more persuasive in terms of setting safety levels, this dose was used as the basis for the calculations of the
allowable limit for limited exposure as follows.
NOAEL = 125 mg/kg/d
8) This information is included for completeness, as it is not considered necessary to set allowable limits for EG when
EO limits are controlled to the levels specified in this part of ISO 10993.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 59

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Uncertainty factors (UFs):
UF1 (inter-individual variation among humans) ::: 10 (default value)
UF2 (inter-species variation) ::: 1 (human data available)
UF3 (quality/relevance of the data) 1 (relevant data)
Modifying factor (MF):
MF ::: UF1 x UF2 x UF3 or MF ::: 10 x 1 x 1 or MF ::: 10
TI ::: NOAEL or TI::: 12,5 mg/kg/d or TI ::: 12,5 mg/kg/d
MF 10
Utilization factor (UTF):
UTF CEF (concomitant exposure factor) PEF (proportional exposure factor)
CEF ::: 0,2 (default value)
PEF = 1 (single day exposure)
UTF =0,2
Tolerable exposure (TE):
- TE::: TI x BW x UTF or TE ::: 12,5 mg/kg/d x 70 kg x 0,2 or TE ::: 175 mg/d
Allowable limit (AL):
Benefit factor (BF) = 1 (default value)
AL ::: TE x BF or AL ::: 175 mg/d x 1 or AL ::: 175 mg/d or 175 mg/device
After examination of this allowable limit, it was determined that it would be highly unlikely that humans could
be exposed to this much EG from limited exposure to medical devices.
1.2.3 Prolonged exposure
The prolonged exposure limit for EG was based on a review of the subchronic toxicity and reproductive effects
data (teratogenicity, dominant lethality and reproductive toxicity) generated in animals (see References [42],
[55], [67], [115], [122], [137], [149], [150], [152], [153], [164]. [185], [203] and [204]).
In repeated-dose oral and parenteral studies lasting for varying time periods up to 157 d, EG produced a
variety of adverse effects resulting primarily from its metabolism to oxalate, that included oxaluria, renal injury
(nephrosis, tubular dilation, inflammation), elevated urea nitrogen and creatinine, renal crystals, crystals in the
brain, decreased growth, centrilobular degeneration in the liver, shift in white blood cells toward neutrophils
and bone marrow hypercellularity and ectopic hematopoeisis. Dosages ranged 'from 50 mg/kg to 2 200 mg/kg
or more. Reproductive studies included teratology studies in which EG was administered during various time
periods of gestation and general studies in which the effects of EG on fertility, reproduction performance,
teratogenicity and feotal development, and the potential of EG to produce dominant lethal effects were
evaluated, These latter studies were multigenerational in duration.
Dosages ranged from 40 mg/kg to 5 000 mg/kg or more. In the teratology studies (all conducted by oral
administration), EG produced maternal toxicity, embryo toxicity, foetal toxicity and abnormalities to skeletal
and visceral tissues at dosages above 150 mg/kg. In the multigenerational studies (also conducted only by
oral administration), a dosage of 1 840 mg/kg (estimated from a study in which EG was administered at a
concentration of 0,5 % in drinking water (see Reference [97]) produced no adverse effects while a dosage
greater than 1 000 mg/kg was required before indications of foetal toxicity (decreased pup weight), embryo
toxicity (decreased litter size) and teratogenicity were produced.
60 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Inspection of the data suggested that the no-observed-effect levels of EG for prolonged exposure periods, i.e.,
1 d to 30 d, were comparable regardless of the route of exposure on specific target organs or reproductive
effect. Animals appeared to be somewhat more sensitive to the general systemic toxicity of EG than to its
ability to produce adverse changes to reproduction. To provide the greatest protection for the patient, the
lowest NOEL, 50 mg/kg from a subcutaneous toxicity study in dogs (see Reference [203]), was used as the
basis for the calculation of the allowable limit for prolonged exposure as follows:
NOAEL 50 mg/kg/d
Uncertainty factors (UFs):
UF1 (inter-individual variation among humans) 10 (default value)
UF2 (inter-species variation) = 5 (similarity in response)
UF3 (quality/relevance of the data) = 1 (relevant data)
Modifying factor (MF):
MF UF1 x UF2 x UF3 or MF = 10 x 5 x 1 or MF =50
TI = NOAEL or TI = 50 mg/kg/d or TI = 1 0 mg/kg/d
50 '
Utilization factor (UTF):
UTF = CEF (concomitant exposure factor) x PEF (proportional exposure factor)
CEF = 0,2 (default value)
PEF = 1 (default value)
UTF 0,2
Tolerable exposure (TE):
- TE = TI x BW x UTF or TE = 1,0 mg/kg/d x 70 kg x 0,2 or TE = 14 mg/d
Allowable limit (AL):

Benefit factor (BF) 1 (default value)
AL = TE x BF or AL = 14 mg/d x 1 or AL = 14 mg/d or 420 mg/device
1.2.4 Permanent exposure
The permanent exposure limit was based on a review of the chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity data (see
References [24], [25], [41], [116] and [129]). In these studies, rats, mice and monkeys received EG in the diet
for two or three years and rats received EG by subcutaneous injection twice weekly for at least a year. In the
oral studies, animals exhibited renal changes (sclerosis, calcification, nephritis, tubular cell hyperplasia),
oxalate deposition, increased urea nitrogen and creatinine, reduced haematology parameters (haematocrit,
haemoglobin and red blood cell count), mineralization of soft tissues, parathyroid hyperplasia and liver injury
(fatty changes). These changes were not reported following subcutaneous administration nor were there any
increases in the incidence of tumour formation in these studies. Dosages ranged from 8,6 mg/kg to 800 mg/kg
or more.
Inspection of these data revealed some route sensitivity in the no-observed-effect levels for EG for permanent
exposure period, i.e., 30 d to life; however, they are comparable to those generated in subchronic and
© ISO 2008 All rights reserved 61

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993~7:2008(E)
reproductive toxicity studies. To provide the greatest protection for the patient, the lowest NOEL for chronic
toxicity. 40 mg/kg/d administered in the rats' diet for two years. was used as the basis for the calculation of the
allowable limit for permanent exposure as follows:
NOAEL 40 mg/kg/d
Uncertainty factors (UFs):
UF1 (inter~individual variation among humans) =10 (default value)
UF2 (inter-species variation) = 5 (similar response)
UF3 (quality/relevance of the data) = 1 (relevant data)
Modifying factor (MF):
MF UF1 x UF2 x UF3 or MF = 10 x 5 x 1 or MF = 50
TI NOAEL or TI = 40 mg/kg/d or TI = 0 8 mg/kg/d
50 '
Utilization factor (UTF):
UTF = CEF (concomitant exposure factor) x PEF (proportional exposure factor)
CEF = 0,2 (default value)
PEF =1 (default value)
UTF 0,2
Tolerable exposure (TE):
- TE =TI x BW x UTF or TE =0,8 mg/kg/d x 70 kg x 0,2 or TE = 11,2 mg/d
Allowable limit (AL):
Benefit factor (BF) = 1
AL =TE x BF or AL = 5,6 mg x 1 or AL = 11,2 mg/d or 280 mg/device
1.2.5 Tolerable contact limit (Tel)
Global tolerable contact limits were not developed for EG as the local concentration and specific routes of
exposure playa key role in determining the potential for local irritancy. It is recommended that local irritation of
EG be addressed by application of ISO 10993-10 and ISO 10993-4. A review of the literature indicated that
EG has an overall low potential for skin irritancy. A single exposure to 10 % EG was negative in a human
patch test (see Reference [96]) while in another human study, repeated exposure indicated that EG was a
minor skin irritant (see Reference [168]). The non-irritating concentration for acute eye irritation ranged from
0,4 % to 5 % (see References [118]. [119] and [120]) while the non-irritating concentration for repeated ocular
exposure was 20 % (see Reference [120]).
62 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
Annex J
(informative)
Preparation of EO and ECH standards
J.1 Preparation of EO standards
J.1.1 Collection of EO gas
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Connect the EO standard gas cylinder to a serum vial (approximately 30 ml capacity) as shown in Figure J.1.
Vent the vial by placing a hypodermic needle through the septum, keeping the point near the top of the vial.
Connect a length of polyvinyl chloride tubing to the outlet needle 2 and submerge the end of the tubing in a
beaker of water.
DANGER - To protect the analyst, it is extremely important that this procedure be carried out under
an exhaust hood (fume cupboard). See 4.4.1.1.
Place another length of tubing on the EO cylinder regulator and connect to a hypodermic needle. Insert the
second needle, or inlet needle 1, through the vial septum, and push the point down to the bottom. Start the EO
flow through the system so that bubbles emerge from the vent tube at the rate of one per second. Purge the
vial for about 15 min. Remove the inlet needle from the vial, and allow the EO gas in the vial to equilibrate to
atmospheric pressure by removing the vent needle from the vial as the last bubble emerges from the vent
tube in the beaker. Using the ideal gas law approximation, it can be shown that the concentration of EO in the
vial is 1,83 IJg/1J1 at 760 mm Hg 9) and 20°C.
9) 1 mm Hg 133322 Pa or 760 mm Hg = 101 325 KPa.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 63

ISO 10993-1:2008(E)
1
2
Key
1 main valve
2 EO gas lecture bottle
3 second control valve
4 crimp cap with PFTE septum
5 EO outlet needle 2
6 EO inlet needle 1
7 serum vial (30 ml)
8 beaker with water (300 ml)
loS. EN ISO 10993-1:2008
8
\ \
\ \
\ \
\ \
\ \
-~
\ \
\ \
\ \
\ \
1\
\ I
II
11
\ J
1/
Figure J.1 - Apparatus for the preparation of EO standards
The concentration of EO (CEO), in I-Ig/1-l1, according to the ideal gas law, may be calculated for any given
temperature, T (OC), and pressure, p (mmHg), using the following equation:
=0,706-~-
273+T
where 0,706 is the inverse of the gas constant, R, for EO, expressed in grams kelvin per millimetre of mercury
per litre.
J.1.2 EO standard dilutions for heads pace methods
Dilute the standard from J.1.1 in a vial (nominal 15 ml) whose volume has been previously determined to the
nearest 0,01 ml (the same size tllat will be used in the sample analysis) and that is first purged with dry
nitrogen for 1 min. Remove about 10 IJI of EO gas from the first vial with a gas-tight syringe. Remove the
syringe from the vial and depress the plunger to the desired volume of 10 1-11 with the needle pointing upward.
Place the nitrogen-flushed vial on to the upward-pointing syringe needle and inject the 10 1-11 of EO into the
vial. Do not flush the syringe; immediately remove it from the vial. The vial now contains 18,3 I-Ig of EO at
20°C and 760 mmHg. Adjust the concentration of EO for the ambient conditions described in J.1.1.
64 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Inject duplicate 100 ~l aliquots of the gas from the second standard vial on to the column of the gas
chromatograph to obtain a response from the instrument. Prepare more highly concentrated standards by
diluting larger aliquots of the pure EO gas from the first vial. Since the vials contain freely-available EO gas,
the standards need not be heated as is required for the samples.
Store stock standard solutions in a refrigerator when not in use or if purchased, at the conditions specified by
the manufacturer (see Annex F). Establish storage stability and shelf life for EO stock. Prepare calibration
standards fresh daily. Discard after use.
J.1.3 EO standard dilutions for solvent methods 10), 11)
For increased safety and accuracy, it is recommended that EO and ECH standards of known and certified
concentrations be purchased from a commercial source. If this is not possible, then stock EO standards can
be prepared from the pure compound as described below.
Set up an EO standard gas cylinder as described in J.1.1 with the volumetric flask, previously purged as
described, placed in a dry ice/isopropanol bath, or equivalent, to condense the EO gas into a liquid. Only the
polyvinyl chloride tubing and attached hypodermic needle supplying EO from the gas cylinder are connected
to the vial. There is no need to vent the vial with a second hypodermic needle, since EO is collected as a
liquid.
Fill the vial with an adequate volume of liquid EO, close the valve on the gas cylinder and remove the
hypodermic needle attached to the polyvinyl chloride tubing. Remove the vial from the ice bath.
Weigh a sealed 100 ml volumetric flask (with a PTFE-sealed valve) containing about 60 ml of solvent to the
nearest 0,1 mg. Add five drops of liquid ethylene oxide to the flask and reweigh the flask. Fill the flask with
solvent to the 100 ml line, invert and shake intermittently 12),
Prepare dilutions of the solution by diluting aliquots with an appropriate volume of solvent. If, for example,
exactly 100 mg of EO were added to 100 ml of solvent, the resulting concentration would be 1 mg/ml. Diluting
1 ml of this solution to 10 ml yields a 100 \-Ig/ml EO standard. Prepare standard solutions of higher or lower
EO concentrations in a similar manner. Prepare standards to maximize the GC detection while bracketing the
EO level expected in the test sample.
Inject duplicate 1 \-II to 5 \-II aliquots of each standard on to the column of the gas chromatograph to obtain
responses for peak area or peak height.
Store stock standard solutions in a refrigerator when not in use or if purchased, at the conditions specified by
the manufacturer (see Annex F). Prepare calibration standards fresh daily. Discard after use.
In the practice of GC, experience has shown that as samples are injected on to the GC column, the precision
of the injection improves as the volume of the injection increases. The constant error associated with the
inaccuracies of the syringe calibration becomes a smaller fraction of the draw volume as the draw volume
increases. For accuracy, do not choose a syringe having a draw volume less than 10 % of the syringe volume.
In attempting to increase draw volume accuracy by increasing the actual draw volume, caution should be
taken to not overload the GC column. With current autosampler technology, the issue of injection volume
accuracy and precision are not a concern.
10) A previously cooled syringe will aid in transferring liquid EO. Care should be taken to make sure that the syringe
needle does not touch the solvent.
11) Experience has shown that the measurement errors associated with the preparation of the stock solutions are
constant, irrespective of the volume being prepared. The percentage error will be reduced if large volumes are prepared
and then used as needed.
12) If it is necessary to store the volumetric flask temporarily, it has been found that the standard solutions are most stable
when the volumetric flask is stored inverted.
© ISO 2008 All rights reserved 65

1.8. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
J.2 Preparation of ECH standards
Accurately weigh a 100 ml volumetric flask containing about 60 rnl water to the nearest 0,1 mg. Add ECH
(about 100 mg) drop-wise to the flask. Re-weigh the flask and calculate the difference between the two
masses; then dilute to volume with water and shake. Store stock standard solutions in a refrigerator when not
in use (see Annex F). Establish storage stability and shelf life for ECH stock. Prepare working standards daily
and discard after use.
Equilibrate the ECH standards to room temperature. Prepare working standards at a minimum of three
concentrations. Test the linearity of the GC responses at these concentration ranges prior to their use as a
standard curve. Prepare the standards to maximize the GC detection while bracketing the ECH levels
expected in the test sample. Inject duplicate 1 ~I to 5 ~I aliquots of each standard on to the column of the gas
chromatograph to obtain responses for peak area or peak height.
NOTE This procedure can also be used for the preparation of EG standards.
66 © ISO 2008 All rights reserved

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Annex K
(informative)
Ethylene oxide residue measuring methods
K.1 Results of interlaboratory evaluation of methods
K.1.1 EO methods
An interlaboratory evaluation was conducted at 13 laboratories using several EO methods (see
References [112], [113] and [114]) on a series of samples with analytical values distributed from about 40 ppm
to about 350 ppm. The estimated total coefficient of variation of the methods is given in Table K.1.
Table K.1 Comparison of intra- and interlaboratory variations
EO method Intralaboratory Interlaboratory
Headspace method 3,7 % 21,3 %
Acetone method 4,1 % 16,3 %
DMF method 2,9 % 8,3 %
Aqueous method 2,7 % 17,0 %
Another interlaboratory evaluation was made, in which each laboratory used the same EO method (see
Reference [89]). Linear regression data were obtained by comparing results obtained in two laboratories for a
series of samples with analytical values distributed from 3,6 ppm to 26 ppm.
The regression equation calculated was: y = 0,04 + O,904x; correlation coefficient r = 0,974 (p < 0,000 01).
The intralaboratory coefficient of variation of the method was estimated as 4,0 % at 14 ppm EO or 8,3 % at
30 ppm EO in the matrix tested (unpublished data provided by A. Nakamura, H. Kikuchi and K, Tsuji).
Analytical data from samples of three different EO levels were obtained using both the solvent extraction
followed by a headspace gas analysis procedure (see Reference [136]) and the bromination method (see
Reference [89]) in two laboratories. Results were compared using linear regression analysis, which gave the
following regression data y = -0,03 + 1 ,07x; correlation coefficient r = 0,999. The interlaboratory coefFicient of
variation of the KAA procedure was estimated as 4,7 %, 1,8 % and 2,7 % at 12 ppm, 25 ppm and 56 ppm EO
respectively in the matrix tested (see Reference [132]),
K.1,2 ECH methods
An interlaboratory evaluation was conducted for ECH (see Reference [14]). Tile estimated total coefficient of
variation of the methods was as follows:
Intralaboratory 7,46 %
Interlaboratory 10,99 %
These data were obtained for ECH concentrations of about 3,0 ppm to 100 ppm.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 67

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
K.2 Apparatus and reagents
K.2.1 Apparatus
K.2.1.1 Gas chromatograph, equipped with a flame ionization detector (FlO) or an electron capture
detector (ECO) and chart recorder.
NOTE 1 The ECO will not detect EO unless it is first derivatized with hydrogen bromide.
NOTE 2 An electronic integrator is valuable in obtaining reproducible results.
K.2.1.2 Hypodermic needles and polyvinyl chloride tubing, as required for preparing standards.
K.2.1.3 Volumetric glassware, equipped with PTFE-lined septa or PTFE-sealed valves for preparing
standards.
Care should be taken in selecting glassware of an appropriate volume in order to minimize headspace over
the extraction solution or standard solution. When preparing liquid standards or extracts, headspace should
not exceed 10 % of the standard or extractant volume.
K.2.1.4 Micro-syringe, (5 fJl or 10 fJl capacity) for injecting aliquots of the extract into the gas
chromatograph.
K.2.1.5 Fume hood, to provide adequate ventilation while preparing standards and samples.
K.2.1.6 Analytical balance, capable of measuring to 0,1 mg.
K.2.1.7 Gas regulator, for lecture bottle containing EO.
K.2.1.8 Gas-tight syringes, of 10 IJI, 51J!, 100 ~II and 1 000 fJl capacities for use in preparing standards
and for injecting headspace gas on to the column of the gas chromatograph.
K.2.1.9 Laboratory oven, capable of heating samples to (100 ± 2) ac.
K.2.1.10 Laboratory oven, capable of heating samples to (37 ± 1) ac.
K.2.1.11 Water bath, capable of maintaining samples at (70 ± 2) ac.
K.2.1.12 Mechanical shaker.
K.2.1.13 Glass heads pace vials with PTFE-lined septa, of nominal 20 ml capacity for preparation of
calibration standards.
K.2.1.14 Flat-bottom screw-cap vial, of a size that will accommodate the sample and extraction fluid,
equipped with a PTFE-lined silicone septum and thin PTFE film, used for extraction of EO and reaction of EO
with bromohydrin if applicable.
K.2.1.15 Injection needle, of dimensions 0,65 mm x 25 mm for addition of hydrobromic acid.
K.2.1.16 Millipore filter, of 0,45 fJm pore size for filtration of the reaction mixture before chromatography.
K.2.1.17 Refrigerator, capable of maintaining samples between 2 ac and 8 ac.
K.2.2 Reagents
K.2.2.1 Epoxyethane (ethylene oxide), in suitable gas bottle, 99,7 % pure.
K.2.2.2 2-chloroethanol (ethylene chlorohydrin), 99 % assay.
68 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
10993-7:2008(E)
K.2.2.3 1,2~epoxypropane (propylene oxide), reagent grade.
K.2.2.4 Freshly double-distilled hydrobromic acid, prepared as follows:
Distil 100 ml of 47 % hydrobromic acid in the presence of 100 mg tin (II) chloride. Discard the first 25 ml of
distillate and collect the next 50 ml of distillate. Re-distill 50 ml of the distillate in the presence of 50 mg tin (II)
chloride, discard the first 15 ml of distillate and collect the next 20 ml of colourless liquid (bp 125°C to
126 DC). Store in a glass-stoppered glass container and use within 1 week.
K.2.2.5 Tin (II) chloride (stannous chloride), reagent grade.
K.2.2.6 Water, of purity suitable for GC.
K.2.2.7 Ethanol, of purity suitable for GC.
K.2.2.8 Propanone (acetone), of purity suitable for GC.
K.2.2.9 Dimethylformamide (DMF), of purity suitable for GC.
K.3 Standard preparation
K.3.1 Preparation of ethylene oxide standards
Where required, prepare appropriate standards as described in J.1.
K.3.2 Preparation of ethylene chlorohydrin standards
Where required, prepare ethylene chlorohydrin standards as described in J.2.
K.3.3 Preparation of propylene oxide (PO) standards
Prepare a PO standard by diluting PO in ethanol to provide a solution containing PO at a concentration of
0,5 fJg/ml.
K.4 Product extraction
K.4.1 General
Prepare extracts according to the principles described in 4.4.
K.4.2 Extraction to simulate product use
Use water to simUlate product use. Perform simulated-use extraction under conditions that provide the
greatest challenge to the intended use.
For example, extract blOOd-contacting and parenteral devices with water by filling completely or flushing the
blood path or fluid path (whichever is appropriate).
NOTE When filling completely, ensure that no voids remain.

Where it is not possible to fill components of the device that come into contact with the patient, place all, or a
critical and representative portion, of the device in a suitable container and add water to achieve an
appropriate sample/extraction fluid ratio. Exercise caution; take several representative portions of the device
as necessary to ensure confidence in the data derived from small samples of larger devices.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 69

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Extract samples for a time equivalent to or exceeding the maximum time for single use, and at temperatures
that provide the greatest simulated challenge, as described in 4.4.6.2. Alternatively, prepare a series of
extracts (a minimum of three is suggested) representing various shorter periods of time and use these
extraction rates to calculate the effects of longer or daily repeated exposure.
If the assay is not performed immediately, decant the extract from the sample and seal in a PTFE-lined
septum-capped vial. The headspace in the vial of any standard solution or extract shall be less than 10 % of
the total volume. The extract can be stored in a refrigerator at (5 3) DC. The analyst should establish the
shelf life and storage time. Take care when using water extraction to assay EO, as EO may convert to EG or
ECH or both during the storage of the aqueous extract (see Reference [35]).
K.4.3 Exhaustive procedure using thermal extraction
Weigh a 1 g sample to the nearest 0,1 mg, place into a capped septum vial, and heat in an oven at an
appropriate temperature for an appropriate amount of time. The time/temperature regimen is relatively
arbitrary. Vary the time to achieve an equilibrium headspace partial pressure of EO.
Remove the vial from the oven. Inject duplicate 100 ~I samples of the headspace gas on to the column of the
gas chromatograph, and determine the areas or heights of the EO peaks. Calculate the mean for the duplicate
samples.
NOTE Take care that column packing material is not picked up on the needle during injection. Experience has shown
that testing the hot sample immediately after it has been removed from the oven will result in an error often greater than
20 % because of loss of material from the syringe as it is removed from the vial and its pressure equilibrates to the room
pressure. Some materials resorb EO as the temperature equilibrates to room temperature. Some materials also appear to
resorb the EO completely in the vial if allowed to cool. In the analysis of these materials, samples and standards may need
to be injected on to the column while they are still hot or warm and then purged (as described above) without further
cooling.
Automated headspace analysers are commercially available. However, the technique may be performed
manually.
Remove the cap from the vial under a hood, and purge the vial for 30 s with dry nitrogen. Replace the cap
using a new septum and repeat the heating and injection to exhaustion. Exhaustion is achieved when an
amount of EO is extracted which is less than 10 % of the first extraction or until there is no analytically
significant increase in the cumulative residue levels detected. Calculate the EO in the sample with reference
to the standard curve by summing the EO values obtained for the mean peak area or peak height
measurements made in each of the sample heatings.
K.4.4 Exhaustive extraction with ethanol followed by headspace gas analysis of the ethanol
extract
K.4.4.1 Calibration standards
Prepare EO standards by diluting EO in ethanol to provide solutions containing EO at concentrations of
0,4 ~g/ml, 0,8 ~g/ml, 1 ,2 ~g/ml, 1,6 ~g/ml and 2,0 ~g/ml. Prepare a standard containing propylene oxide (PO)
in ethanol at a concentration of 0,5 ~g/ml as described in K.3.3. Cool these standard solutions and appropriate
numbers of the special headspace bottles (see Figure K.1) in a dry icelisopropanol bath, or equivalent.
Transfer appropriate aliquots of each EO standard solution and the same volume of the PO standard solution
to the headspace bottles. Heat the headspace bottles at 70 DC for 30 min and inject duplicate 100 ~I to 1 ml
aliquots of the headspace gas from each bottle on to the column of the gas chromatograph. Measure the
height or area of the EO and PO peaks and plot the peak height or peak area ratio (X axis) against the EO
concentration (Y axis) to give a calibration line.
The addition of PO to the EO standards is used as an internal standard to evaluate the accuracy in the
preparation of the EO standards. The plot of the EO/PO ratio against the target EO concentrations of the
standards would ideally result in a linear correlation coefficient, r, of 1,000 and a linear equation of
y O,5x + O. Parameters such as these indicate a perfectly straight calibration line that has a slope of 0,5 with
a y-intercept of zero. A correlation coefficient of 0,999 or better could be used, A linear slope of greater than
70 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
0,5 with a y-intercept of zero indicates that all the EO standards were lower than the target concentrations. A
slope of less than 0,5 with a y-intercept of zero indicates that all the EO standards were higher than the target
Note that calibration lines with a y-intercept greater or less than zero will lead to EO sample results that are
higher or lower than the actual concentration, respectively, especially at lower EO sample concentrations. The
degree of inaccuracy depends on the distance that the y-intercept is from zero. Last, the height or area of the
PO peak itself should remain relatively constant. Fluctuation in the PO peak height or area indicates variability
in the injection volume of the sample into the GC. However, this should not be an issue with the current level
of GC technology.
K.4.4.2 Analysis procedure
Weigh a 5 g (or g) sample, cut into small pieces (5 mm long for tubing, 10 mm square for sheet), to the
nearest 0,1 mg and place into a headspace bottle of 100 ml (or 10 ml) capacity. Add 50 ml (or 5 ml) of PO
standard solution (0,25 ~g/ml) to the bottle. Cap the bottle, crimp the cap and heat the sealed bottle at 70°C
for 3 h with gentle shaking. Inject duplicate 100 ~I to 1 ml samples of the headspace gas on to the column of
the gas chromatograph and determine the EO/PO peak ratios. Calculate the mean EO content for the
duplicate samples by reference to the calibration line described in KAA.1.
3
2
5
4
1
Key
1 liquid
2 headspace
3 septum
4 O-ring
5 clamp
Figure K.1 - Special headspace bottle
K.4.5 Exhaustive extraction with solvent
Accurately weigh an approximately 1 g product sample and place it in capped volumetric glassware of the
appropriate volume to minimize the headspace. Transfer 10 ml of the chosen solvent by pipette into the
volumetric flask. Cap the volumetric flask and allow to stand for 24 h at (25 2) °c.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 71

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
These temperatures and times were those used in the study reported by Marlowe[112], [113], [1141. Other
validated temperatures and times may be required to achieve an exhaustive extraction (see K.4.3).
Inject duplicate 1 ~I to 5 ~I aliquots on to the column of the gas chromatograph. Calculate the EO in the
samples by reference to the standard curve and calculate the mean for the duplicate samples.
K.4.6 Exhaustive extraction with ethanol followed by preparation of the bromohydrin
derivative and chromatography using a gas chromatograph equipped with an ECD
K.4.S.1 Calibration standards
Prepare EO standards by diluting EO in ethanol to provide solutions containing EO at concentrations of
0,4 ~g/ml, 0,8 ~g/ml, 1,2 ~g/ml, 1,6 ~g/ml and 2,0 ~g/ml. Prepare a standard containing PO in ethanol at a
concentration of 0,5 ~g/ml as described in K.3.3. Prepare standard mixtures by mixing equal volumes of each
EO standard solution and the PO standard solution. This plot is done for the same reason as the plot of the
EO/PO ratio versus EO standard concentrations as described in K.4.4.1.
Transfer 1 ml of each standard mixture to a screw-cap vial. Add two drops (ca. 0,015 g) of hydrobromic acid to
the mixture through the septum using an injection needle. Allow the vial to stand for 1 h at room temperature.
Heat the vial for 1 h at 50 DC in a water bath with gentle shaking, then cool to room temperature.
Add 0,02 g sodium bicarbonate to the vial and shake the vial longitudinally for 30 min. Allow the vial to stand
for 10 min. Shake the vial again horizontally for 30 min. Allow the vial to stand for 10 min and centrifuge at
3000 r/min (50 s-1) for 5 min. Filter the mixture through a small millipore filter 13).
Inject duplicate 1 ~I to 5 ~I aliquots of each filtrate on to the column of the gas chromatograph to obtain
responses for peak height ratios of ethylene bromohydrin (EBH) vs. propylene bromohydrin (PBH). Prepare a
calibration line by plotting EBH/PBH peak height ratios vs. amounts of EO (~g). This is done in a manner
analogous to that described in K.4.4.1 for EO and PO peaks.
K.4.6.2 Analysis procedure
Use this procedure with standards prepared as described in K.4.4.1.
Cool the PO standard solution (0,25 ~g/ml) and a screw-cap vial in a dry ice/isopropanol bath or equivalent.
Transfer 1 ml of the PO standard solution to the vial.
Weigh a 10 mg to 30 mg portion of the sample to the nearest 0,1 mg and place it in the vial.
Add two drops (approximately 0,015 g) of hydrobromic acid to the vial through the septum using an injection
needle. Let the vial stand for 1 h at room temperature then heat the vial for 8 h at 50 °C in a water bath with
gentle shaking. Heat the vial for an additional 16 h at 50 DC in a laboratory oven, then cool to room
temperature.
Add 0,02 g sodium bicarbonate to the vial and shake the vial longitudinally for 30 min. Allow the vial to stand
for 10 min. Shake the vial again horizontally for 30 min. Allow the vial to stand for 10 min and centrifuge at
3 000 r/min (50 s-1) for 5 min. Filter the mixture through a small mililpore filter 12).
Inject duplicate 1 ~I to 5 ~I aliquots of each filtrate on to the column of the gas chromatograph to obtain
responses for peak height ratios of ethylene bromohydrin (EBH) vs. propylene bromohydrin (PBH).
Calculate the mean of the duplicate samples and determine the EO in the sample by reference to the
calibration line described in K.4.4.1.
13) Use of vials with U- or V-shaped bottoms occasionally causes incomplete neutralization, giving poor chromatograms.
72 © ISO 2008 All rights reserved

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Since some medical device materials can contain bromide ions (e.g. butylated rubbers), there is the potential
for the formation of EBH as a degradation product of the similar to the formation of ECH from the
presence of chloride ions. Therefore, a portion of the sample should be analysed for the presence of EBH as a
sterilization residue prior to the preparation of the bromohydrin derivative.
K.4.7 Simulated-use extraction for ethylene chlorohydrin using water
Use the procedure described in K.4.2.
K.4.8 Exhaustive extraction for ethylene chlorohydrin using water
Accurately weigh a portion (or the entire sample) of approximately 1 g to 50 g into capped glassware of
appropriate volume to minimize headspace. Transfer sufficient water to cover the sample portion while
ensuring that the container is filled and capped. Allow to stand for 24 h at (25 ± 2) cC. Agitate the container
and contents vigorously on a mechanical shaker for approximately 10 min 14).
Inject duplicate 1 1-11 to 5 1-11 aliquots onto the column of the gas chromatograph. Calculate the concentration of
ECH in the sample from either the relative peak area or peak height of the chromatogram when referenced to
the previously generated standard response curve.
K.5 Gas chromatography
K.S.1 General
Select the most appropriate methods and procedures. Use the appropriate chromatographic procedure that
satisfies the requirements listed in Annex A.
Optimization of conditions may be required.
NOTE In order to improve the accuracy of the measurement, and to detect problems with an injection, many
chromatographers use internal standards in their method.
K.S.2 Extraction to simulate product use for the determination of EO or ECH
Inject 1 iJl to 5 iJl aliquots of the aqueous extract from KA.2 or KA.7.
K.S.3 Exhaustive procedure using thermal extraction
Inject 100 iJl to 1 ml aliquots of the headspace gas.
K.S.4 Exhaustive extraction with ethanol followed by heads pace gas analysis of the ethanol
extract
Inject 100 1-11 to 1 ml aliquots of the aqueous extract from KAA.
K.S.5 Exhaustive extraction with ethanol followed by preparation of the bromohydrin
derivative and chromatography a gas chromatograph equipped with an ECD
Inject 1 iJl to 5 iJl aliquots of the aqueous extract from KA.6.
14) These temperatures and times are those used in the referee evaluation (AAMI, 1989[14]). Other appropriate
temperatures and times may be required to achieve an exhaustive extraction (see K.4.3). If required, it may be more
appropriate to agitate for the entire time. Some materials may not need agitation.
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 73

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
Bibliography
[1] ISO 11135-1 :2007, Sterilization of health care products - Ethylene oxide - Part 1: Requirements for
the development, validation and routine control of a sterilization process for medical devices
[2] AAMI EO-VRSU 3/81; superseded by AAMI GVR-1987, Good hospital practice: Ethylene oxide gas-
Ventilation recommendations and safe use, Arlington, VA, 1981
[3] ABDEL-RAHMAN, M.S. and KADRY, AM. Studies on the use of uncertainty factors in deriving RfDs, Hum.
Ecolog. Risk Assess., 1, pp. 614-624,1995
[4] ABDEL-RAHMAN, S.Z., R.A, AMMENHEUSE, M.M., YANG, Z., STOCK, T.H., MORANDI, M. and
WARD, J. B. Jr. Variability in human sensitivity to 1,3-butadiene: Influence of the allelic variants of the
microsomal epoxide hydrolase gene, Environ. Mol. Mutagen., 41(2), pp. 140-6
[5] ABRAHAMS, R.H. Recent studies with workers exposed to ethylene oxide, in: Jorkasky J.F., ed., Safe
use of ethylene oxide, Proceedings of the Educational Seminar, Washington DC, Health Industries
Manufacturers Association, 27-38, pp. 211-220, HIMA Report No. 80-4,1980
[6] ADAMS, C.H., WERELY, C.J., VICTOR, T.C., HOAL, E.G., ROssouw, G., VAN HELDEN, P.O. Allele
frequencies for glutathione S-transferase and N-acetyltransferase 2 differ in African population groups
and may be associated with oesophageal cancer or tuberculosis incidence, Clin. Chem. Lab. Med.
41(4), pp. 600-605, 2003
[7] ADLER, N. Residual ethylene oxide and ethylene glycol in ethylene oxide sterilized pharmaceuticals, J.
Pharm. Sci. 1965; 54(5), pp. 735-742
[8] ALLEVA, F. (Cited in BALAZS[18], 1976)
[9] ALOMAR, A, CAMARASA, J.M. and NOGUERA, J.E.A Ethylene oxide dermatitis, Contact Dermatitis, 7,
pp. 205-207, 1981
[10] AMBROSE, A. Toxicological studies of compounds investigated for use as inhibitors of biological
processes. II Toxicity of ethylene chlorohydrin. Arch. Ind. Hyg. Occup. Med. 1950; 2:582-597.
[11] ANAND, V.P., COGDILL, C.P., KLAUSNER, K.A, L., BARBOLT, T., PAGE, B.F.J., URBANSKI, P.,
WOSS CASIMIR, J., BOYCE, J. Reevaluation of ethylene oxide hemolysis and irritation potential,
J. Biomed. Mater. Res. 64A, pp. 648-654, 2003
[12] ANDERSEN, S. Ethylene oxide toxicity, J. Lab. Clin. Med., 77(2), pp. 346-356,1971
[13] AAMI ST29-1988, Recommended practice for determining residual ethylene oxide in medical devices,
Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation, American National Standard. Arlington,
VA, AAMI, 1988
[14] AAMI ST30-1989, Determining residual ethylene chlorohydrin and ethylene glycol in medical devices,
Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation, American National Standard. Arlington,
VA, AAMI, 1989
[15] ASTM E691-05, Standard practice for conducting an interlaboratory study to determine the preCision of
a test method
[16] ATSDR Tp-90-16:1990, Toxicological prOfile for ethylene oxide. Atlanta, GA, US Department of Health
and Human Services, Public Health Service
[17] ATSDR (1997), Toxicological profile for ethylene glycol and propylene glycol, Atlanta, GA
74 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
[18] BALAZS,T Toxicity of ethylene oxide and chloroethanol, FDA By-lines No.3, pp. 150-155, 1976
[19] BALL, N.A. Determination of ethylene chlorohydrin and ethylene glycol in aqueous solutions and
ethylene oxide in associated plastics, J. Pharm. SeL, 73(9), pp. 1305-1307, 1984
[20] BARTELS, M.J. Comparison of in vitro metabolism of ethylene glycol in rat and human liver S-9
homogenate, Midland MI, R&D Report of the Dow Chemical Company, 2001
[21] BASKETTER, D.A., GRIFFITHS, H.A., WANG, X'M" WILHELM, K.P. and MCFADDEN, J. Individual, ethnic
and seasonal variability in irritant susceptibility of the skin: the implications for a predictive human
patch test, Contact Dermatitis, 35(4), pp. 208-213, 1996
[22] BELILES, R.P., PARKER, J.C. Risk assessment and oncodynamics of ethylene oxide as related to
occupational exposure, Toxicollnd Health 3(3), pp. 371-82, 1987
[23] BJORGE, C., BRUNBORG, G., WIGER, R., HOLME, J.A., SCHOLZ,T, DYBING, E. and SODERLUND, E.J. A
comparative study of chemically induced DNA damage in isolated human and rat testicular cells,
Reprad Toxico!. 10(6), pp. 509-519, 1996
[24] BLOOD, F. Chronic toxicity of ethylene glycol in the rat, Fd. Cosmet. Tox., 3, pp. 229-234, 1965
[25] BLOOD, F., ELLIOTT, G. and WRIGHT, M. Chronic toxicity of ethylene glycol in the monkey, Tox. Appl.
Pharm. 4, pp. 489-491, 1962
[26] BOMIVIER, J. and RITZ, E. Ethylene oxide as a major cause of anaphylactoid reactions in dialysis (a

reView). Artif. Organs, 11, pp. 111-117, 1987
[27] BOUSQUET, J. and MICHEL, F.B. Allergy to formaldehyde and ethylene-oxide, Clin. Rev. Allergy 9,
pp. 357-370,1991
[28] BROBST, K.M. and HAN, 1. Determination of chlorohydrins in hydroxypropyl starch ethers, J. Assoc.
Off. Anal. Chem., 54(5), pp. 1093-1094, 1971
[29] BROWN, D.J. Determination of ethylene oxide and ethylene chlorohydrin in plastic and rubber surgical
eqUipment sterilized with ethylene oxide, J. Assoc. Off. Anal. Chem., 53(2), pp. 263-267, 1970
[30] BRUCH, C.W. Industrial Sterilization, eds. Phillips, G. B., Miller, W.S., Duke University Press, Durham,
NC, pp. 49-77, 1973
[31] BUA, Ethylene oxide, German Chemical Society (GDCh) Advisory Committee on Existing Chemicals
of Environmental Relevance (Beratergremium fOr Umweltrelevante Altstoffe). Stuttgart, Hirzel Verlag
(BUA Report 141), 1995
[32] BUEHLER, B.A., RAO, V., FINNELL, R.H. Biochemical and molecular teratology of fetal hydantoin
syndrome, Neural Clin., 12(4), pp. 741-748,1994
[33] CARPENTER, C., SMYTH, H. and POZZANI, U. The assay of acute vapor toxiCity, and the grading and
interpretation of results on 96 chemical compounds, J. Ind. Hyg. Toxicol. 31, pp. 343-349, 1949 (cited
in EPA, 1985)
[34] Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (COER), Review Guidance, Validation of ChromatographiC
Methods, November 1994
[35] CHESLER, S.N., REBBERT, R.E. and ENAGONIO, D.P. Evaluation of AAMI EO residues recommended
practice and a determination of EO kinetics in water, National Bureau of Standards, Department of
Commerce, Washington, DC, October 1985
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 75

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
[36] CHOI, S. and KIM, S. Lipopolysaccharide inhibition of rat hepatic microsomal epoxide hydrolase and
glutathione S-transferase gene expression irrespective of nuclear factor-kappaB activation, Biochem.
Pharmacol., 56(11), pp. 1427-1436, 1988
[37] CONINE, D., NAUMANN, B. and HECKER, L. Setting health-based residue limits for contaminants in
pharmaceuticals and medical devices, Quality Assurance: Good Practice, Regulation, and Law, 1,
pp. 171-180, 1992
[38] COURTNEY, K., ANDREWS, J. and GRADY, M. Teratogenic evaluation of ethylene chlorohydrin (Ech,
2-chloroethanol) in mice, J. Environ. Sci. Health, 817(4), pp. 381-391, 1982
[39] CYR, W.H., GLASER, Z.R and JACOBS, M.E. CDRH risk assessment of EO residues on sterilized
medical devices, in: Jorkasky, J.; ed. Sterilization in the 1990s (Health Industry Manufacturers
Association Report No. HIMA 89-1). Washington, DC: HIMA, pp. 269-285, 1989
[40] DANIELSON, J.W., SNELL, RP. and OXBORROW, G.S. Detection and quantitation of ethylene oxide,
2-chloroe th anal, and ethylene glycol with capillary gas chromatography, J. Chromatogr., 28,
pp. 97-101,1990
[41] DEPASS, L., GARMAN, R, WOODSIDE, M., GIDDENS, W., MARON POT, R and WElL, C. Chronic toxicity and
carcinogenicity studies of ethylene glycol in rats and mice, Fund. App!. Tox., 7, pp. 547-565, 1986
[42] DEPASS, L., WOODSIDE, M., MARONPOT, R and WElL, C. (1986b) Three-generation reproduction and
dominant lethal mutagenesis studies of ethylene glycol in the rat, Fund. Appl. Tox., 7, pp.566-572,
1986
[43] DUNKELBERG, H. Carcinogenicity of ethylene oxide and 1,2-propylene oxide upon intragastric
administration to rats, Br. J. Cancer, 46, pp. 924-933, 1982
[44] EDELHAUSER, H., ANTOINE, M., PEDERSON, H., HIDDEMAN, J. and HARRIS, R Intraocular safety
evaluation of ethylene oxide and sterilant residues, J. Toxicol. Cut. Ocular Toxicol., 2, pp. 7-39,1983
[45] EHRENBERG, L., TORNQVIST, M. The research background for risk assessment of ethylene oxide:
aspects of dose, Mutat. Res., 330(1-2), pp. 41-54,1995
[46] Ethylene Oxide Residues on Sterilized Medical Devices, Environ Corporation,Washington, DC, 1987
(also in: Health Industry Manufacturers Association, HIMA Report 88-6. Washington, DC, 1988)
[47] ETTRE, LS. and JONES, E. Quantitative analysis with headspace gas chromatography using multiple
headspace extraction, Chromatography Newsletter, 12(1), July 1984
[48] EVANS, AJ., HENNER, W.O., EILERS, K.M., MONTALTO, M.A, WERSINGER, E.M., ANDERSEN, P.
COHEN, J.I., EVERTS, E.C., MCWILLIAMS, J.E. and BEER, TM. Polymorph isms of GSTT1 and related
genes in head and neck cancer risk. Head Neck, 26(1), pp. 63-70,2004
[49] FALZON, M., MILTON, AS., BURKE, M.D. Are the decreases in hepatic cytochrome P-450 and other
drug-metabolising enzymes caused by indomethacin in vivo mediated by intestinal bacterial
endotoxins? 16,16-Dimethylprostaglandin F2 alpha prevents decreases in hepatic drug-metabolising
enzymes due to exogenous endotoxin, Biochem. Pharmacol., 33(8), pp. 1285-1292, April 15, 1984
[50] FENNELL, TR, MACNEELA, J.P., MORRIS, R.W., WATSON, M., THOMPSON, C.L., BELL, D.A Hemoglobin
adducts from acrylonitrile and ethylene oxide in cigarette smokers: effects of glutathione S-transferase
T1-null and M1-null genotypes, Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev., 9(7), pp. 705-712, 2000
[51] FENNELL, TR and BROWN, C.D. A physiologically based pharmacokinetic model for ethylene oxide in
mouse, rat, and human, Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol., 173(3), pp. 161-75,2001
76 © ISO 2008 All rights reserved

EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
[52] FISHER, J.W., DORMAN, D.C., MEDINSKY, M.A., WELSCH, F., CONOLLY, R.B. Analysis of respiratory
exchange of methanol in the lung of the monkey using a physiological model, Toxico!. Sci., 53(2),
pp. 185-193,2000
[53] FOST, U., TORNQVIST, M., LEu-mECHER, M., GRANATH, F., HALLlER, EHRENBERG, L. Effects of
variation in detoxification rate on dose monitoring through adducts, Hum. Exp. Toxicol., 14(2},
pp.201 1995
[54] FUCHS, J., WULLENWEBER, U., HENGSTLER, J.G., BIENFAIT, H.G., HILTL, G., OESCH, F. Genotoxic risk for
humans due to work place exposure to ethylene oxide: remarkable individual differences in
susceptibility, Arch Toxico!., 68(6), pp. 343-8, 1994
GAUNT, J., HARDY, J., GANGOLLI, S., BUTTERWORTH, K. and LLOYD, A. Bibra, 14, p. 109, 1975 (cited in
Rowe and Wolf, 1982 and Environ, 1987)
[56] GAYLOR, D.W. Quantitative Cancer Risk Assessment for Exposure to Ethylene Oxide from Medical
Devices, submitted to the CDRH Toxicology Risk Assessment Committee, June 29, 1993
[57] GLASER, Z.R. Ethylene oxide: Toxicology review and field study results of hospital use, J. Environ.
Path. Tox., 2, pp. 173-208, 1979
[58] L. Hazard Assessment of Ethylene Oxide, CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, 1986
[59] GOLDBLATT, M.W. Brit. J. Ind. Med., 1, p. 213,1944
[60] GRIFFETH, L.K., ROSEN, G.M. and RAUCHMAN, E.J. Effects of model traumatic injury on hepatic drug
metabolism in the rat. VI. Major detoxificationltoxification pathways, Drug Metab. Dispos., 15(6),
pp. 749-59, 1987
[61] GUESS, W. Tissue reactions to 2-chloroethanol in rabbits, Tox. Appl. Pharm., 16, pp. 382-390, 1970
[62] Guidelines for data acquisition and data quality evaluation in environmental chemistry. Anal. Chem.,
52(14),1980
[63] P., BROWN, R., BUSCHBOOM, CLARK, M., MILLER, R., MUSIC, R., ROWE, S., SCHIRMER, R.
and SIKOV, M. Teratogenic Study of Ethylene Oxide and Propylene Oxide and n-Butyl Acetate (NIOSH
Contract No. 210-80-0013), Battelle Pacific Northwest Laboratories, Richland, WA, 1982 (cited in EPA,
1985)
[64] HALLlER, E., LANGHOF, T., DANNAPPEL, D., M., SCHRODER, K., GOERGENS, H.W.,
MULLER, A. and H.M. Polymorphism of glutathione conjugation of methyl bromide, ethylene
oxide and dichloromethane in human blood: influence on the induction of sister chromatid exchanges
(SCE) in lymphocytes, Arch. Toxicol., 67(3), pp. 173-178, 1993
[65] HANDLOS, V. Determination of gas residuals in ethylene oxide sterilized materials
survey. Archiv. Pharm. Chemi. Sci. , 4, pp. 73-80, 1976
A literature
[66] HANDLOS, V. The hazards of ethylene oxide sterilization. Arch. Pharm. Chemi. Sci., 7, pp. 939-949,
1979
[67] HANZLIK, P., SEIDENFELD, M. and JOHNSON, C. General properties, irritant and toxic actions of ethylene
glycol, J. Pharm. Exp. Ther., 41(4) pp. 387-406, 1931
[68] HARTMAN, P.A. and BOWMAN, P.B. Simple GLC determination of ethylene oxide and its reaction
products in drug and formulations, J. Pharm. Sci., 66(6), pp. 789-792, 1977
[69] HASSETT, C., LIN, J., CARTY, C.L., LAURENZANA, E.M. and OMIECINSKI, C.J. Human hepatic microsomal
epoxide hydrolase: comparative analysis of polymorphic expression, Arch. Biochem. Biophys., 337(2),
pp. 275-283, 1997
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 77

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
[70] Health Industry Manufacturers Association. Guidelines for the Analysis of Ethylene Oxide Residues in
Medical Devices (HIMA Document No.1, Vol. 2). Washington, DC: HIMA, 1980
[71] HOGSTEDT, C., ROHLEN,O., BERNDTSSON, B.S., AXELSON, O. and EHRENBERG, L. A cohort study of
mortality and cancer incidence in ethylene oxide production workers, Br. J. Ind. Med., 36(4),
pp. 276-80, 1979
HOLLINGSWORTH, R., ROWE, V., OYEN, F., MCCALLISTER, D. and SPENCER, H. Toxicity of ethylene oxide
determined on experimental animals. AMA Arch. Ind. Health., 13, pp. 217-227, 1956
(73] Hu, J.J., MOHRENWEISER, H.W., BELL, D.A., LEADON, S.A. and MILLER, M.S. Symposium overview:
genetic polymorphisms in DNA repair and cancer risk, Toxicol. Appl. PharmacoL, 185(1), pp.64-73,
2002
[74] HUBAUX, A. and GILBERT, V. Decision and detection limits for linear calibration curves, Ana/. Chem.,
42(8), pp. 849-855, 1970
[75] IARC (1994) Some industrial chemicals. Ethylene oxide, Lyons, pp. 73-159 (IARC Monographs on the
Evaluation of Carcinogenic Risks to Humans, Vol. 60)
(76] Improved detection and separation of glycols and ethylene oxide residues using GC (Bulletin 789),
Supelco, Inc., 1980
[77] International Conference On Harmonization; ICH Harmonised Tripartite Guideline; Text on the
Validation of Analytical Procedures: Recommended for adoption at step 4 of the ICH process on
27 October 1994
[78] JACOBSON, K., HACKLEY, E. and FEINSILVER, L. The toxicity of inhaled ethylene oxide and propylene
oxide vapors, AMA Arch. Ind. Health., 13, pp. 237-244, 1956
[79] Japan Association of Disposable Medical Device Industries, Guideline for ethylene oxide sterilization
of disposable medical devices (second edition), December 1989
[80] JOHNSON, M. Metabolism of chIoroethanol in the rat, Biochem. Pharmacol., 16, pp. 185-199, 1967
[81] JOHNSON, M. Detoxication of ethylene chlorohydrin, Fd. Cosmet. Tox., 5, p. 449,1967
[82] JONES-PRICE, C., KIMMEL, T., MARKS, LEDOUX, T., J., FISHER, P., LANGHOFF-PASCHKE, L. and
MARR, M. Teratologic Evaluation of Ethylene Oxide (CAS No. 75-78-8) in New Zealand White Rabbits
(Final report RB80-EO, N IEHS Contract No. 1-ES-2127). Research Triangle Park, NC, National
Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, 1982 (cited in EPA, 1985)
[83] JONES-PRICE, C., MARKS, T., LEDOUX, T., J., FISCHER, P., LANGHOFF-PASCHKE, L., MARR, M. and
KIMMEL, C. Teratologic Evaluation of Ethylene Chlorohydrin (CAS No. 107-07-3) in New Zealand White
Rabbits (PB85-170959). Research Triangle Park, NC, National Institute of Environmental Health
Sciences, 1985a
[84] JONES-PRICE, C., MARKS, T., LEDOUX, T., REEL, J., FISCHER, P., LANGHOFF-PASCHKE, L., MARR, M. and
KIMMEL, C. Teratologic Evaluation of Ethylene Chlorohydrin (CAS No. 107-07-3) in CD-1 mice
(PB85-172104). Research Triangle Park, NC, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences,
1985b
[85] KAREL, L., LANDING, B. and HARVEY, T. The intraperitoneal toxicity of some glycols, glycol ethers, glycol
esters and phthalates in mice. Fed. Proceedings, 1947; 6:342
[86] KASHTOCK, M. Use of specific retention volumes in evaluation of various types of columns for use in
the trace determination of ethylene glycol by gas chromatography, J. Chromatogr., 176, pp.25-35,
1979
78 © ISO 2008 -All rights reserved

I.S. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
[87] KAYE, M.M. and NEVELL, T.G. Statistical evaluation of methods using headspace gas chromatography
for the determination of ethylene oxide. Analyst., 110, pp. 1067-1071, 1985
[88] KERR, B.M., AE., EDDY, AC., LOISEAU, P., GUYOT, M., WILENSKY, AJ., LEVY, RH. Inhibition of
human liver microsomal epoxide hydrolase by valproate and valpromide: in vitrolin vivo correlation,
Clin. Pharmacal. Ther., 46( 1), pp. 82-93, 1989
[89] KIKUCHI, H., NAKAMURA, A and TSUJI, K. Gas chromatographic determination with electron capture
detection of residual ethylene oxide in intraocular lenses, J. Assoc. Off. Anal. Chem., 71,
pp. 1057-1062, 1988
[90] KITTERINGHAM, N.R, DAVIS, C., HOWARD, N., PIRMOHAMED, M., PARK, B.K. In terindividual and
interspecies variation in hepatic microsomal epoxide hydrolase activity: studies with cis-stilbene oxide,
carbamazepine 10, 11-epoxide and naphthalene, J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther., 278(3), pp. 1018-1027
[91] KNUDSEN, L.E., LOFT, S.H., AUTRUP, H. Risk assessment: the importance of genetic polymorphisms in
man, Mutat. Res., 482(1-2), pp. 83-88,2001
[92] KROES, R, BOCK, B. and MARTIS, L. Ethylene oxide extraction and stability in water and blood,
Personal communication to the AAMI committee, January 1985
[93] KROETZ, D. KERR, B.M., MCFARLAND, L.V., LOISEAU, P., WILENSKY, AJ. and LEVY, RH.
Measurement of in vivo microsomal epoxide hydrolase activity in white subjects, Clin. Pharmacal.
Ther., 53(3), pp. 306-315, March 1993
[94] KULKARNI, RK., BARTAK, D., OUSTERHOUT, O.K. and LEONARD, F. Determination of residual ethylene
oxide in catheters by gas-liquid chromatography, J. Biomed. Mat. Res., 2, pp. 165-171, 1968
[95] LABORDE, J. and KIMMEL, C. The teratogeniCity of ethylene oxide administered intravenously to mice.
Tox. Appl. Pharm., 56, pp. 1 1980
[96] LAKIND, J.S., MCKENNA, E.A, HUBNER, R.P. and TARDIFF, R.G. A review of the comparative
mammalian toxicity of ethylene glycol and propylene glycol, Crit. Rev. Toxicol., 29(4), pp.331-365,
1999
[97] LAMB, J. IV, MARON POT, R, GULATI, D., RUSSELL, V., HOMMEL-BARNES, L. and Sabharwal, P. (1985).
Reproductive and developmental toxicity of ethylene glycol in the mouse, Tox. Appl. Pharm. 81,
pp.100-112,1985
[98] LANDEN, W.O., THOMPSON, D.W. and FLOYD, K.M. Determination of ethylene oxide and ethylene glycol
in wet surgical dressings, FDA By-Lines, No.2, 1971
[99] LANDIN, H.H., GOLKAR, S.O., V., TORNQVIST, M. Biomonitoring of Epicholorhydrin by
Hemoglobin Adducts, Anal. Biochem., 240, pp. 1-6,1996
[100] LANDIN, H.H., GRUMMT, T., LAURENT, C. and TATES, A Monitoring of occupational exposure to
epichlorohydrin by genetic effects and hemoglobin adduct, Mut. Res., 381, pp. 217-226, 1997
[101] LATVEN, A and MOLITOR, H. Comparison of the toxic, hypnotic and irritating properties of eight organic
solvents, J. Pharm. Exp. Ther., 65, pp. 89-94,1939
[102] LAWRENCE, W., TURNER, J. and AUTIAN, J. Toxicity of ethylene chlorohydrin I: Acute toxicity studies,
J. Pharm. Sci., 60(4), pp. 568-571,1971
[103] LAWRENCE, W., ITOH, K., TURNER, J. and AUTIAN, J. Toxicity of ethylene chlorohydrin II: Subchronic
toxicityandspecialtests, J. Pharm. ScL, 60(8), pp.1163-1168, 1971
[104] LAWRENCE, W., DILLINGHAM, TURNER, J. and AUTIAN, J. Toxicity profile of chloroacetaldehyde,
J. Pharm. Sci., 61(1), pp. 19-25, 1972
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 79

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
[105] HT., DANIEL, A and WALKER, C. Conformance test procedures (CTP) for verifying the labeling
claims for precision, bias, and interferences in in-vitro diagnostic devices used for the quantitative
measurement of analytes in human body fluids, in Bureau of Medical Devices Biometrics Report 8202,
Food and Drug Administration, Silver Spring, MD, April 1982
[106] LONG, G.L. and WINEFORDNER, J.D. Limit of detection - A closer look at the IUPAC definition, Anal.
Chem., 55(7), pp. 712A-724A, 1983
[107] LYNCH, D., LEWIS, T., MOORMAN, W., SABHARWAL, P. and BURG, J. Toxic and mutagenic effects of
ethylene oxide and propylene oxide on spermatogenic functions in Cynomolgus monkeys,
Toxicologist., 3, p. 60, 1982
[108] LYNCH, D., LEWIS, T., MOORMAN, W., BURG, J., GROTH, D., KHAN, A, ACKERMAN, L. and COCKERELL, B.
CarCinogenic and toxicologic effects of inhaled ethylene oxide and propylene oxide in F 344 rats, Tox.
Appl. Pharm., 76, pp. 69-84, 1984
[109] LYNCH, D., LEWIS, T., MOORMAN, W. et aI., Effects on monkeys and rats of long-term inhalation
exposure to ethylene oxide: Major findings of the NIOSH study, in In-hospital ethylene sterilization,
Current issues in ETO toxicity and occupational exposure, AAMI Technology Assessment Report
No. 8-84, Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation, Arlington, VA, pp. 7-10, 1984
[110] MALANOSKI, A.J. Analyst performance standards: Determination for and from collaborative studies,
J. Assoc. Off. Anal. Chem., 65(6), pp. 1333-1338, 1982
[111] MAf\IIUS, G.J. Determination of ethylene oxide, ethylene chlorohydrin, and ethylene glycol residues in
ophthalmiC solution at proposed concentration limits, J. Pharm. Sci" 68(12), pp. 1547-1549,1979
[112J MARLOWE, D.E., LAO, N.T., LAO, C.S., EATON, AR and B.F.J. Interlaboratory Comparison of
Ethylene Oxide Residue Analysis Test Methods (HHS Publication FDA 86-4204), March 1986
[113] MARLOWE, D. E. Summary of results from interlaboratory comparison of ethylene oxide residue analysis
test methods, Paper presented at AAIVII Conference on In-hospital EO sterilization, Arlington, VA,
November 1983
[114] MARLOWE, D.E., LAO, N.T., EATON, A.R, PAGE, B.F.J. and LAO, C.S. An interlaboratory comparison of
analytical methods for ethylene oxide, J. Pharm. Sci., 76, pp. 333-337, 1986
[115] MARON POT, R, ZELENAK, J., WEAVER, E. and SMITH, N. Teratogenicity study of ethylene glycol in rats,
Drug Chem. Tox., 6(6), pp. 579-594, 1983
[116] MASON, M., C. and BAKER, J. Toxicology and carcinogenesis of various chemicals used in the

preparation of vaccines, Clin. ToxieoL, 4(2): 185-204, 1971
[117] MATSUMOTO, T., HARDAWAY, RM., PANI, K.C., SATER, C.M., BARTAK, D.E. and MARGETIS, P.M. Safe
standard of aeration for ethylene oxide sterilized supplies, Arch. Surg., 96, pp. 464-470, 1968
[118] McDONALD, T., ROBERTS, M. and BORGMANN, A Ocular toxicity of ethylene chlorohydrin and ethylene
glycolin rabbit eyes, Tox. Appl. Pharm., 21, pp. 143-150, 1972
[119] McDONALD, T., KASTEN, K., HERVEY, R, GREGG, S., BORGMANN, A. and MURCHESON, T. Acute ocular
toxicity of ethylene oxide, ethylene glycol and ethylene chlorohydrin, Bull. Parent. Drug Assoc., 27(4),
pp. 153-164, 1973
[120] McDONALD, T., KASTEN, K., R., GREGG, S. and BUTTON, B. Acute ocular toxicity for normal
and irritated rabbit eyes and subacute ocular toxicity for ethylene oxide, ethylene chlorohydrin and
ethylene glycol, Bull. Parent. Drug Assoc., 31(1), pp. 25-32,1977
80 © ISO 2008 -All rights reserved

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008 ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
[121] MCGLYNN, K.A, HUNTER, K., LEVOYER, T., ROUSH, J., WISE, P., MICHIELLI, RA, SHEN, F.M.,
EVANS, AA, LONDON, W.T., BUETOW, K.H. Susceptibility to aflatoxin 81-related primary hepatocellular
carcinoma in mice and humans, Cancer Res., 63(15), pp. 4594-4601, 2003
[122] MELNICK, R (1984). Toxicities of ethylene glycol and ethylene glycol monoethyl ether in Fischer 344/N
rats and 86C3F1 mice, Env. Hlth. Perspect., 57, pp. 147-155, 1984
[123] MERTES, I., FLEISCHMANN, R, GLATT, H.R and OESCH, F. Interindividual variations in the activities of
cytosolic and microsomal epoxide hydrolase in human liver, Carcinogenesis, 6(2) pp.219-223,
February 1985
[124] MILLAR, M.R, SHARPE, RM., WEINBAUER, G. H.M., SAUNDERS, P.T. Marmoset
spermatogenesis: organizational similarities to the human, Int. J. Andro!., 23(5) pp. 266-77, October
2000
[125] MOGENHAN, J.A, WHITBOURNE, J.E. and ERNST, R.R Determination of ethylene oxide in surgical
materials by vacuum extraction and gas chromatography, J. Pharm. Sci., 60(2), pp. 222-224, 1971
[126] MOORE, J.A, DASTON, G.P., FAUSTMAN, GOLUB, M.S., HART, W.L., HUGHES, e. Jr, KIMMEL, C.A,
LAMB, J.e., SCHWETZ, B.A. and SCIALLI, AR An evaluative process for assessing human reproductive
and developmental toxicity of agents, Reprod. ToxicoL, 9(1), pp. 61 1995
[127] MORDENTI, J. Man versus beast: pharmacokinetic scaling in mammals, J. Pharm. Sci., 75(11),
pp. 1028-1040, 1986
[128] MaRl, K., KAIDO, M., FUJISHIRO, K., INOUE, N., KOIDE,O., HORI, H. and TANAKA, I. Dose dependent
effects of inhaled ethylene oxide on spermatogeneSis in rats, Br. J. Ind. Med., 48(4), pp. 270-274, April
1991
[129] MORRIS, T., NELSON, M. and CALVERY, A. Observations on the chronic toxicities of propylene glycol,
ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, ethylene glycol mono-ethyl-ether, and diethylene glycol
mono-methyl-ether, J. Pharm. Exp. Ther., 74, pp. 266-273, 1942
[130] MULLER, M., KRAMER, A, ANGERER, J. and HALLlER, E. Ethylene oxide-protein adduct formation in
humans: influence of glutathione-S-transferase polymorphisms, Int. Arch. Occup. Environ. Health.,
71 (7), pp. 499-502, 1998
[131] MUZENI, RJ. Rapid gas chromatographic determination of ethylene oxide, ethylene chlorohydrin, and
ethylene glycol residues in rubber catheters, J. Assoc. Off. Anal. Chem., 68(3), pp. 506-508, 1985
[132] NAKAMURA, A, KIKUCHI, H. and TSUJI, K. Determination of ethylene oxide residue in commercially
available intraocular lenses by new sensitive method (Electron capture detection/gas
chromatography), 10L, 3, pp. 4-8, 1989
[133] National Toxicology Program, Toxicology and Carcinogenicity Studies of 2-Chloroethanol (Ethylene
Chlorohydrin) (CAS. No 107-07-3) in F3441N Rats and Swiss CD-1 Mice (Dermal Studies) (NTP
TR275, NIH Publication 86-2531). Research Triangle Park, NC, NTP, 1985
[134] National Toxicology Program, Toxicology and Carcinogenicity Studies of Ethylene Oxide (CAS
No. 75-21-8) in 86C3F1 Mice (Inhalation Studies) (NTP Technical Report 326, U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, Public Health Services, National Institute of Health). Research Triangle
Park, NC, NTP, 1987
[135] National Toxicology Program, Toxicology and Carcinogenesis Studies of Ethylene Glycol (CAS
No. 107-21-1) in 86C3F1 mice (feed studies) (NTP Technical Report 413, U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services). Research Triangle Park, NC, NTP, 1993
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 81

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
[136] National Toxicology Program - Center for the Evaluation of Risks to Human Reproduction Expert
Panel, Report on the Reproductive and Developmental Toxicity of Ethylene Glycol.
I\ITP-CERHR-EG-03, 2003
[137] NEEPER-BRADLEY, T. Developmental Toxicity Evaluation of Ethylene Glycol Administrated by Gavage
to CD(R) (Sprague-Dawley) Rats: Determination of a "No Observable Effect Leve/" (NOEL),
Report 52-656, Bushy Run Research Center, Union Carbide Corporation, Export, PA (Study
sponsored by Ethylene Glycol Panel, Chemical Manufacturers Association. Washington, D.C.), 1990
[138] NIVARD, M.J., CZENE, K., SEGERBACK, D. and VOGEL, E.W. Mutagenic activity of ethylene oxide and
propylene oxide under XPG proficient and deficient conditions in relation to
N-7-(2-hydroxyalkyl)guanine levels in Drosophila, Mutat. Res., 529(1-2), pp. 95-107,2003
[139] NORTHUP, S., WEINCKOWSKI, D., MARTIS, L. and DARBY, T. Toxicity caused by acute and subacute
intravenous administration of ethylene oxide in the rat, J. Environ. Pathol. Toxico!., 5, pp. 617-623,
1981
[140] aBA, T., TSUJI, K., MIZUMACHI, S., KIKUCHI, H., SHINTANI, H., IIDA, K. and MEGURO, K. Studies on
residual ethylene oxide in medical devices (I) - Gas chromatographic determination of ethylene oxide
in plastics. Ikakikai-gaku, 52(3), pp. 134-139, 1982
[141] OHBA, T. Safety of residual ethylene oxide and ethylene oxide concentrations in the working
environment of sterilization facilities, in Gaughren, . Morrissey, R.; You-sen, W.; eds., Sterilization of
Medical Products Volume IV, Polyscience Publications, Montreal, pp. 172-177, 1986
[142] OLSEN, A.K., BJORTUFT, H., WIGER, R., HOLME, J., SEEBERG, E., BJORAS, M. and BRUNBORG, G. Highly
efficient base excision repair (BER) in human and rat male germ cells, Nucleic Acids Res. 29(8),
pp. 1781-90,2001
[143] OMIECINSKI, C.J., AICHER, L. and SWENSON, L. Developmental expression of human microsomal
epoxide hydrolase, J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 269(1), pp. 417-23,1994
[144] OMIECINSKI, C.J., HASSETT, C. and HOSAGRAHARA, V. Epoxide hydrolase-polymorphism and role in
toxicology. Toxicol. Lett., 112-113, pp. 365-70, 2000
[145] OSER, B., MORGAREIDGE, K., Cox, G. and CARSON, J. Short-term toxicity of ethylene chlorohydrin
(ECH) in rats, dogs and monkeys, Fd. Cosmet. Tox., 13, pp. 313-315, 1975
[146] Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. Procedures for setting limits for volatile organic solvents
with methylene chloride as an example of the process. Committee on Rational Specifications for
Impurities in Bulk Drug Substances - Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. In: Pharmacopeial
Forum. Washington, DC: PMA, 1989; l\Jovember-December, pp. 5748-5759
[147] Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. Application of the PMA procedure for setting residue limits
for organic volatile solvents in pharmaceuticals to ethylene oxide. Prepared by D.L. Conine and the
PMA subcommittee of Industrial Toxicologists. Procedures for setting limits for organic volatile solvents
with chloroform, 1,4-dioxane, ethylene oxide, and trichloroethylene as examples of the process.
Committee on Rational SpeCifications for Impurities in Bulk Drug Substances - Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers Association. In: Pharmacopeial Forum. Washington, DC: PMA, May-June:557-572,
1990
[148] POrrENGER, L.H., CARNEY, E.W. and BARTELS, M.J. Dose-dependent nonlinear pharmacokinetics of
ethylene glycol metabolites in pregnant (GD 10) and nonpregnant Sprague-Dawley rats following oral
administration of ethylene glycol, Toxicol. Sci. 62, pp. 10-19, 2001
[149] PRICE, C., KIMMEL, C., TYL, R. and MARR, M. The developmental toxicity of ethylene glycol in rats and
mice, Tox. Appl. Pharm., 81, pp. 113-127, 1985
82 © ISO 2008 All rights reserved

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
[150] C., TYL, R., MARR, M. and KIMMEL, C. Teratologic evaluation of ethylene glycol (EG) in CD rats
and CD-1 mice, Teratology, 29(2): 52A, 1984
[151] RAGELlS, E.P., FISHER, B.S., KIMECK, B.A. and JOHNSON, C. Isolation and determination of
chlorohydrins in foods fumigated with ethylene oxide or propylene oxide. J. Assoc. Off. Anal. Chem.,
51(3), pp. 709-717,1968
[152J ROBERTS, J. and VL..IUVL.LJ H. Ethylene glycol toxicity in the monkey, Tax. Appl. Pharm. 15,
pp. 624-631, 1969
[153] ROBINSON, M., POND, C., LAURIE, R., BERCZ, J., HeNNINGSEN, G. and CONDIE, L. Subacute and
subchronic toxicity of ethylene glycol administered in drinking water to Sprague-Dawley rats, Drug
Chem. Tax., 13(1), pp. 43-70,1990
[154] RODRICKS, JV. and BROWN, S.L. Data requirements for assessment of device risks, J. Am. Call.
Toxicol., 7, pp. 509-518,1988
[155] ROMANO, S.J. and RENNER, J.A. Comparison of analytical methods for residual ethylene oxide
analysis, J. Pharm. Sci., 64(8}, pp. 1412-1417,1975
[156J ROMANO, S.J., RENNER, J.A. and LEITNER, P.M. Gas chromatography determination of residual
ethylene oxide by head space analysis, Anal. Chem., 45(14}, pp. 2327-2330, 1973
[157J ROMAGUERA, C. and VILAPLANA, J. Airborne occupational contact dermatitis from ethylene oxide,
Contact Dermatitis, 39, p. 85, 1997
[158] ROSSINI, A., RAPOZO, D.C., AMORIM, L.IVI., MACEDO, J.M., MEDINA, R., NETO, J.F., GALLO, C.V. and
PINTO, L.F. Frequencies of GSTM1, GSTT1, and GSTP1 polymorphisms in a Brazilian population,
Genet. Mol. Res., 1(3), pp. 233-40, 2002
[159] ROWE, V. and McCOLLISTER, S. Alcohols. Chapter Fifty-Five, in: Clayton, G., Clayton, F., eds. Patty's
Industrial Hygiene and Toxicology (3rd ed. Vol. 2C Toxicology), John Wiley & Sons, New York,
pp. 4675-4684, 1982
[160] ROWE, V. and WOLF, M. GLYCOLS. Alcohols. Chapter Fifty, in: Clayton, G.; Clayton, . eds. Patty's
Industrial Hygiene and Toxicology (3rd ed. Vol. 2C Toxicology). John Wiley & Sons, !\Jew York,
pp. 3817-3832,1982
[161] RTECS, Registry of Toxic Effects of Chemical Substances 1985-1986, National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health, DHHS (NIOSH) Publication No. 87-114, Rockville, MD,
pp. 2361-2362, 1987
[162J RTECS, Registry of Toxic Effects of Chemical Substances. National Institute for Occupational Safety
and Health, On-line, Rockville, I\/ID, 2006
[163] SCHRODER, K.R., WIEBEL, F.A., REICH, S., DANNAPPEL, D., BOLT, H.M. and E.
Glutathione-S-transferase (GST) theta polymorphism influences background SCE rate, Arch. Toxicol.,
69(7), pp. 505-507, 1995
[164] SCHULER, R., HARDIN, B., NIEMEIER, R., BOOTH, G., HAZELDEN, K., PICCIRILLO, V. and SMITH, K. Results
of testing fifteen glycol ethers in a short-term in vivo reproductive toxicity assay, Env. Hlth. Perspect.
57, pp. 141-146, 1984
[165] D., OSTERMAN-GOLKAR, S., MOLHOLT, B. and NILSSON, R. In vivo tissue dosimetry as a
basis for cross-species extrapolation in cancer risk assessment of propylene oxide, Regul. Toxicol.
Pharmacol. 20(1 Pt 1), pp. 1-14
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 83

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
[166] SEILKEN, R. and VALDEZ-FLORES, C. Cancer Dose-Response Modeling. and Risk Characterizations
Based on Animals Exposed to Ethylene Oxide FINAL REPORT, Submitted to Ethylene Oxide Industry
Council, 2000
[167] SHIMIZU, H., OHARA, K. and SAWA, M. Sterile anterior segment inflammation presumably due to
absorbed ethylene oxide to the implanted intraocular lens, Rinsho Ganka (Japanese J. Clin.
Ophthalmol.), 40(11), pp. 1219-1225, 1986
[168] SHUPACK, J.L., ANDERSEN, S.R. and ROMANO, S,J. Human skin reactions to ethylene oxide. J. Lab.
Clin. Med., 98, pp. 723-729,1981
[169] SNELLINGS, W,M., MARONPOT, R.R., ZELENAK, J.P. et al. Teratology study in Fischer 344 rats exposed
to ethylene oxide by inhalation, Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol., 64,476-481, 1982
[170] SNELLINGS, W., MARON POT, R., ZELENAK, J. and LAFFOON, C. Teratology study in Fischer 344 rats
exposed to ethylene oxide by inhalation, Tox. Appl. Pharm., 64, pp. 476-481, 1982a
[171] SNELLINGS, W., ZELENAK, J. and WElL, C. Effects on reproduction in Fischer rats exposed to ethylene
oxide by inhalation for one generation, Tox. Appl. Pharm., 63, pp. 382-388, 1982b
[172] SNELLINGS, W'J WElL, C. and MARONPOT, R. A subchronic inhalation study on the toxicologic potential
of ethylene oxide in B6C3F1 mice, Tax. Appl. Pharm., 76, pp. 510-518, 1984a
[173] SNELLINGS, W., WElL, C. and MARONPOT, R. A two-year inhalation study of the carcinogenic potential of
ethylene oxide in Fischer 344 rats, Tox. Appl. Pharm., 75, pp. 105-117, 1984b
[174] SNYDER, L.R. A rapid approach to selecting the best experimental conditions for high-speed liquid
column chromatography - Part 1 Estimating initial sample resolution and the final resolution
required by a given problem, J. Chromatogr. Sci.; 10, pp. 201-212,1972
[175] SPITZ, H.D. and WEINBERGER, J. Determination of ethylene oxide, ethylene chlorohydrin and ethylene
glycol by gas chromatography, J. Pharm. ScL, 60(2), pp. 271-274, 1971
[176] STAYNER, L., K., GREIFE, A, HORNUNG, R., HAYES, R. NOWLIN, S., MORAWETZ, J.,
RINGENBURG, V., ELLIOT, L. and HALPERIN, W. Exposure-response analysis of cancer mortality in a
cohort of workers exposed to ethylene oxide, Am. J. Epidemiol., 138(10), pp. 787-98,1993
[177] STEENLAND, K., STAYNER, L., A et al. A cohort mortality study of workers exposed to ethylene
oxide, N. Engl. J. Med., 324, pp. 402-407, 1991
[178] STEENLAND, K., STAYNER, L. and DEDDENS, J. Mortality analysis in a cohort of 18235 ethylene oxide
exposed workers: follow up extended from 1987 to 1998, Occup. Environ. Med., 61, pp. 2004
[179] TANAKA, S., NAKAURA, S., KAWASHIMA, K' j KASUYA, Y. and OMORI, Y. Studies on the hemolytic activity
and dermal irritability of ethylene oxide and its reaction products. Jap. J. Med. Instrum. 52(1),
pp. 21-28, 1982
[180] TAYLOR, J.S. Dermatologic hazards from ethylene oxide, Cutis, 19, pp. 189-192, 1977
[181] M.J., SIELKEN, R.L. jr.m and VALDEZ-FLORES, C. Ethylene oxide cancer risk assessment based
on epidemiological data: application of revised regulatory guidelines, Risk Anal. 19(6), pp. 1135-55,
1999
[182] THIER, R., LEWALTER, J., KEMPKES, M., SELINSKI, S., BRUNING, T. and BOLT, H.M. Haemoglobin adducts
of acrylonitrile and ethylene oxide in acrylonitrile workers, dependent on polymorphisms of the
glutathione transferases GSTT1 and GSTM1, Arch. Toxico!., 73(4-5), pp. 197-202,1999
84 © ISO 2008 All rights reserved

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
[183] R, BRUNING, T., Roos, P.H., RIHS, H.P., GOLKA, K., Ko, Y. and BOLT, H.M. Markers of genetic
susceptibility in human environmental hygiene and toxicology: the role of selected GYP, NAT and GST
genes, Int. J. Hyg. Environ. Health., 206(3), pp. 149-71,2003
[184] THIER, R, BALKENHOL, H., LEWALTER, J., SELINSKI, S., DOMMERMUTH, A and BOLT, H.M. Influence of
polymorphisms of the human glutathione transferases and cytochrome P450 2E1 enzyme on the
metabolism and toxicity of ethylene oxide and acrylonitrile, Mutat. Res., 482(1-2), pp, 41-46,2001
[185] TYL, R Developmental Toxicity Evaluation of Ethylene Glycol Administrated by Gavage to DG(R)-1
Mice: Determination of a "No-Observable-Effect Level" (NOEL), Report 51-591, Bushy Run Research
Center. Union Carbide Corporation, Export, PA (Study sponsored by Ethylene Glycol Panel.)
Washington, DC, Chemical Manufacturers Association, 1988
[186] TYLER, T.R, McKELVEY, J.A Dose dependent disposition of 14G labelled ethylene oxide in rats,
Export, PA, Bushy Run Research Center (TSCATS/017061; EPA/OTS Document
No. 878212056),1982
[187] U.S. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY. Health Assessment Document for Ethylene Oxide
(EPA 600/8-84-009F). Research Triangle Park, NC, EPA, 1985
[188] U.S. ENVIRONMEI\JTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (1996) Guidelines for Reproductive Toxicity Risk
Assessment EPAl630/R-96/009 httQ:llwww.epa.gov/ncea/raf/pdfs/repro51.pdf
[189] U.S. FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION. EO, ECH & EG, Proposed maximum residue limits and
maximum levels of exposure (HEW/FDA), Federal Register. Washington, DC, June 23, 1978; 43(122)
[190] USP Chromatography (section 621) in: United States Pharmacopeia 29th Edition, United States
Pharmacopeial Convention 2006
[191] USP Validation of Compendial Methods (section 1225) in: United States Pharmacopeia 29th Edition,
United States Pharmacopeial Convention 2006
[192] VOGEL, E.W. and NATARAJAN, AT. DNA damage and repair in somatic and germ cells in vivo, Mutat.
Res., 330(1-2), pp. 183-208, 1995
[193] WARREN, B. The determination of residual ethylene oxide and halogenated hydrocarbon propellants in
sterilized plastics, J. Pharm. Pharmacol., 23(suppl.), pp. 170S-175S, 1971
[194] WElL, C. Statistics vs. safety factors and scientific judgement in the evaluation of safety for man, Tox.
Appl. Pharm., 21, pp, 454-463, 1972
[195] WEINBAUER, G.F., ASLAM, H" KRISHNAMURTHY, H., BRINKWORTH, M.H., EINSPANIER, A and
HODGES, J.K. Quantitative analysis of spermatogenesis and apoptosis in the common marmoset
(Gallithrix jacchus) reveals high rates of spermatogonial turnover and high spermatogenic efficiency,
BioI. Reprod. 64(1), pp. 120-126,2001
[196] WEINBERGER, J, GLG Determination of ethylene chlorohydrin following co-sweep extraction, J. Pharm.
Sci., 60(4), pp. 545-547, 1971
[197] WERNERMAN, J., Luo, J.L. and HAMMARQVIST, F, Glutathione status in critically-ill patients: possibility of
modulation by antioxidants, Proc. Nutr. Soc" 58(3), pp, 677-680, 1999

[198] WESLEY, ROURKE, B, and DARBISHIRE, 0, The formation of persistent toxic chlorohydrins in
foodstuffs by fumigating with ethylene oxide and propylene oxide, J, Food ScL, 30, pp. 1037-1042,
1965
[199] WHITBOURNE, J.E., MOGENHAN, J.A and RR Determination of 2-chloroethanol in surgical
materials by extraction and gas chromatography, J. Pharm. Sci., 58(3), pp, 1024-1025, August 1969
© ISO 2008 - All rights reserved 85

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
[200] WHITE, J.D. and BRADLEY, TJ. Residual ethylene oxide in methyl methacrylate polymer powders by
GLC, J. Pharm. Sci., 62(10), pp. 1623-1637, 1973
[201] WHO, Ethylene Oxide. Concise International Chemical Assessment Document 54, World Health
°rg a nizatio n, G en eva, 200 3 n.mW'!:!Y::J,Y'£J!tlli2J1Jl!LQg§£QLQiili!L!Yll.J§Qili!~~~:U?Jll
[202] WIENCKE, J. K., PREMBLE, S., KETTERE, B. and KELSEY, K.T Gene deletion of Glutathione-S-transferase
theta: correlation with induced genetic damage and potential role in endogenous mutagenesis, Cancer
Epidemiol. Biomarkers Prev., 4(3), pp. 253-259, 1995
[203] WOODARD, G. and WOODARD, M. Toxicity of residuals from ethylene oxide gas sterilization.
Proceedings of the Health Industry Association Technical Symposium, Washington, DC, pp. 140-161,
1971
[204] YIN, L., Llu, C., SHIH, L. and Po, K. A study of the teratogenic action of ethylene glycol in rats,
Zhonghua Yugangyixue Zazhi, 20(5),289-290, 1986
[205] YONG, L.C., SCHULTE, P.A, WIENCKE, J.K., BOENIGER, M.F., CONNALLY, L.B., WALKER, J.T,
WHELAN, E.A and WARD, E.M. Hemoglobin adducts and sister chromatid exchanges in hospital
workers exposed to ethylene oxide: effects of glutathione S-transferase T1 and M1 genotypes, Cancer
Epidemiol. Biomarkers Prev., 10(5), pp. 539-550, 2001
[206] ZAGAR, L.A Determination of residual ethylene oxide in methyl methacrylate polymer powders by GLC,
J. Pharm. ScL, 61(11), pp. 1801-1803, 1972
[207] ZHENG, W., WEN, W.Q., GUSTAFSON, D.R., GROSS, M., CERHAN, J.R. and FOLSOM, AR. GSTM1 and
GSTT1 polymorphisms and postmenopausal breast cancer risk, Breast Cancer Res. Treat., 74(1),
p. 9, 2002
86 © ISO 2008 - All rights reserved

loS. EN ISO 10993-7:2008

1.5. EN ISO 10993-7:2008
ISO 10993-7:2008(E)
les 11.100.20
Price based on 86 pages
© ISO 2008 All rights reserved
