queueId: ingest-1781569954410-zen
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/10_자사 품질 매뉴얼, 절차서/영문본/☆ 품질 매뉴얼 및 ISO 절차서 (영문본)/원본/ISO Procedures EN/AQP701 Product Realization Risk Management Regulation/AQP701_Product Realization Risk Management Regulation.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/d28245f02aad/AQP701_Product Realization Risk Management Regulation__d28245f02aad_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 8ea7770ff096
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 2018

SOURCE_TEXT
제품실현 위험관리 규정

(Product Realization Risk Management Regulation)

Distinguishment

■ Controlled □ Uncontrolled

H&abyz

41-16, 2Dong, Cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-eup, Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do

This document is effective from the date of appro.

Name

Team Name

Date

Sign

Written

Jeong

Gyeong gyun

Quality Management Team

2024.04.01.

Reviewed

-

-

-

Approved

Hur

Nam kyu

Quality Management Team

2024.04.01.

Index

0. Revision History 3

1. Purpose 4

2. Applied Area 4

3. Terms and Definitions 4

4. Responsibility and Authority 6

5. Work procedures 16

Revision History

No

Revision date

Reasons for revision and major revisions

Approver

0

2012.11.20.

Newly established in accordance with the application of EN ISO 13485:2012+AC2012 & EN ISO 9001:2008 quality management system

-

1

2013.11.10.

ALARP area removal due to revision of EN ISO14971:2012

-

2

2018.02.26.

Apply company CI changes

-

3

2019.04.02.

Amendments in accordance with KGMP application

-

4

2021.10.13.

Correction of typos

-

5

2022.10.31.

Complete revision due to the implementation of EN ISO 14971:2019+A11:2021

-

6

2024.04.01.

1) Change in document name and number

Risk Management Regulation (AQP712) → Product Realization Risk Management Regulation (AQP701)

2) Complete revision to comply with KGMP, EN ISO 13485:2016+A11:2021, FDA 21 CFR Part 820, and MDR (EU) 2017/745 Article 10 requirements

Namkyu.Hur

Purpose

The purpose of this regulation is to identify, estimate, and evaluate risk factors throughout the entire product lifecycle to ensure that medical devices designed and manufactured by our company are safe for their intended use and meet expected performance requirements, and to control these risk factors and reduce the risk level to an acceptable level.

Applied Area

This procedure applies to the overall process of managing product risks associated with the use of medical devices and the risks to patients, users, other equipment, and the surrounding environment.

Terms and Definitions

No.

Terms

Definition

1

accompanying document

A document attached to a medical device, containing information for the installation, use, and maintenance of the medical device, and for the operator or user of the medical device, particularly with regard to the safety of the medical device.

2

harm

Physical harm or damage to human health, or damage to property or the environment

3

hazard

Potential sources of harm

4

hazardous situation

A condition in which people, property, or the environment are exposed to one or more hazards

5

intended purpose

Use of the product, process or service for its intended purpose in accordance with the specifications, instructions and information provided by the manufacturer.

6

sterile medical devices

A medical device that undergoes a sterilization process during the manufacturing process and has the words “Sterilized” or “STERILE”, sterilization method, expiration date, etc. on the container or packaging of the product to indicate that it is a sterilized product.

7

lifecycle

All stages of a medical device's lifespan, from initial development to final disposal.

8

manufacturer

A natural or legal person who assumes all responsibility for the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, assembly of the system, or production of the medical device, whether performed by himself or by a delegate, before the medical device is marketed or used.

9

Manufacturing client

A person who manufactures medical devices by entrusting all or part of the manufacturing process to a manufacturer under a contractual relationship and is legally responsible for the same.

10

Medical device

Devices used alone or in combination on humans or animals

11

Objective evidence

Data that supports any existence or truth

12

Post-production

Product life cycle after the design is complete and the medical device is manufactured

13

Procedure

A prescribed method for performing an act or process

14

Process

A series of interrelated or interacting activities that transform input into output

15

Record

A document that describes the results achieved or

demonstrates the activities performed

16

Residual risk

Risks that remain even after risk control measures are

implemented

17

Risk

The combination of the likelihood of occurrence of a hazard and the severity of that hazard

18

Risk analysis

The systematic use of available information to identify risk factors and assess risks.

19

Risk assessment

Overall process including risk analysis and risk assessment

20

Risk control

The process by which decisions and actions are made to reduce or maintain risks below specified levels

21

Risk estimation

A process used to determine the likelihood of a hazard occurring and the severity of that hazard

22

Risk evaluation

The process of comparing the estimated risk with established risk criteria to determine the acceptability of the risk.

23

Risk management

Systematic application of management policies, procedures, and practices for analyzing, assessing, controlling, and monitoring risks.

24

Risk management file

Records and other documents generated by risk

management

25

Safety

There is absolutely no unacceptable risk.

26

Severity

The magnitude of the possible consequences of the risk factor

27

Top management

A person or group of people who guides and controls a

 manufacturer from the highest position

28

Use error

An act or omission that results in a medical device's response being different from that intended by the manufacturer or expected by the user.

29

Verification

Verifying that the specified requirements have been met through objective evidence

Responsibility and Authority

CEO

Confirmation and approval of the results of assurance of the appropriateness and validity of risk management activities

Guarantee of allocation of personnel required for risk management activities

Quality Manager

1) Verify the ongoing adequacy and effectiveness of risk management.

2) Review risk management plans and reports.

3) Verify corrective actions for risk identification, analysis, assessment, and

control measures.

Development Team Leader

1) Identify, analyze, assess, and implement control measures for risks related

to developed products.

2) Establish and implement risk analysis, assessment, control, and verification

procedures in accordance with the risk management plan.

3) Create a risk management file.

Work procedures

Risk Management Process

We establish and maintain a process for proactively identifying hazards related to medical devices throughout their product lifecycle, assessing, evaluating, and controlling associated risks, and monitoring the effectiveness of these controls. The following elements are included in the monitoring process, and data on monitoring is analyzed in accordance with the Data Analysis Standard (AQP808).

analysis

evaluation

control

production or post-production information

Management Responsibilities

The Quality Manager demonstrates his/her commitment to the risk management process by.

1) Providing appropriate resources

2) Assigning qualified personnel to risk management

3) Determining policies for establishing risk tolerance

4) Reviewing the adequacy of the risk management process at established

intervals to ensure the ongoing effectiveness of risk management and

recording evidence of any decisions or activities.

Qualification of Personnel

Maintain qualification records in accordance with the Human Resources Qualification Regulations (AQP602).

Risk Management Plan

The development team leader establishes and records a risk management plan in accordance with the risk management process. The risk management plan becomes part of the risk management file and includes at least the following: Related activities are recorded in the Risk Management Plan (701-1).

As the scope of the plan for risk management activities, identify and describe the medical devices to which each element of the plan applies and each stage of its life cycle

Responsibilities and authority must be clear

Reflect the review requirements of risk management activities

Evaluation of verification activities

Activities to collect and review related production and post-production information

A matrix that shows which combinations of the likelihood of occurrence of a hazard and the severity of the hazard in the risk management report are acceptable and which are not

Further refine the matrix (e.g., negligible, tolerable with minimal risk) and require that the risk be reduced to a reasonably feasible level before the risk is deemed to be tolerable

The criteria for risk tolerance are determined in accordance with our policy and are based on applicable national or regional laws and international standards, and refer to available information such as generally accepted state-of-the-art technologies and the interests of the parties involved

If the risk management plan changes during the medical device life cycle, a record of the change must be maintained in the risk management file

Risk Management File

The development team leader establishes a risk management report (701-3) and manages the following traceability for each identified risk factor.

Risk analysis

2) Risk assessment

3) Implementation and verification of risk control measures

4) Determination of the acceptability of any residual risks

Risk Analysis

Risk Analysis Process

Risk analysis is conducted on all medical devices manufactured by our company. The execution and results of the planned risk analysis are recorded in the Risk Management Report (701-3).

Documentation of the risk analysis and its results shall include at least the following.

① Description and identification of the analyzed medical device

② Identification of the person and organization that performed the risk

analysis

③ Scope and date of the risk analysis

Identification of characteristics relevant to the intended use and safety of the medical device

Detail the intended use and reasonably foreseeable use errors for the medical device under consideration. Identify and document qualitative and quantitative characteristics that may impact the safety of the medical device, along with appropriate defined limits.

Identification of Hazards

The development team leader documents and maintains in a risk management file the known and predictable risk factors of the medical device in normal and malfunctioning states.

Risk assessment in each hazardous situation

Consider a series of reasonably foreseeable events or combinations thereof that could result in a hazardous situation, and record the resulting hazardous situation.

For each identified hazard, assess the associated risk using available information and data. For hazards where the likelihood of occurrence cannot be assessed, list the possible outcomes for use in risk assessment and risk control. The results of these activities are recorded in the risk management file.

The system used to qualitatively or quantitatively classify the likelihood of occurrence of a hazard or the severity of the hazard is recorded in the risk management plan (701-1) and risk management report (701-3).

Information or data required for risk assessment can be obtained from the following sources.

Published standards

② Scientific and technical data

③ Field data from similar medical devices already in use, including

reported case reports

④ Usability engineering using typical users

⑤ Clinical evidence

⑥ Results of relevant clinical trials

⑦ Expert opinion

⑧ External quality assessment plan

Risk Evaluation

For each identified hazard, determine whether the risk is acceptable using the criteria defined in the Risk Management Plan (701-1). If risk reduction is unnecessary, these requirements do not apply..

Risk assessment includes an evaluation of factors that may affect product quality, including risks and environmental factors that may occur during the process.

Risk Control

Risk Reduction

If risk reduction is required, perform the risk control activities described in Sections 5.8.2 through 5.8.7.

Risk Control Option Analysis

The development team leader identifies appropriate risk control measures to reduce the risk to an acceptable level.

The development team leader uses one or more of the risk control alternatives listed below in order of priority.

Inherent safety by design

Precautions taken during the medical device itself or manufacturing process

Safety information

Selected risk control measures are recorded in the Risk Management Report (701-3).

If it is determined that the risk reduction required during the risk control alternative analysis is impossible, a ‘risk/benefit analysis’ of the residual risk is performed.

Implementation of Risk Control Measure(s)

The development team leader implements the risk control measures selected from the alternative analysis.

After verifying the risk control measures, record them in the risk management file.

After verifying the effectiveness of risk control measures, the results are recorded in the risk management file.

Residual Risk Evaluation

After risk control measures are implemented, residual risk is assessed based on criteria defined in the risk management plan. The results of this assessment are recorded in the Risk Management Report (701-3).

If the residual risk is determined to be unacceptable based on these criteria, additional risk control measures are applied.

Determine what residual risks are to be disclosed for the residual risks judged to be acceptable and what information needs to be included in the supporting documents to disclose these residual risks.

Risk/Benefit Analysis

If the residual risk is determined to be unacceptable based on the criteria established in the risk management plan and further risk control is no longer feasible, relevant information and literature are collected and reviewed to determine whether the benefits of the intended use outweigh the residual risk. If this evidence fails to demonstrate that the benefits outweigh the residual risk, the risk remains unacceptable. If the benefits of the medical device exceed the residual risk, proceed to Section 5.8.6.

Risks arising from risk control measures

The effectiveness of risk control measures is reviewed in relation to the following.

Cause of new risk factors or risk situations

Whether the risk assessed for a previously identified hazard situation was affected by the introduction of risk control measures

New or increased risks are managed according to the identification stage of the risk factor.

Completeness of Risk Control

The Quality Manager ensures that all risks arising from identified hazardous situations have been considered. The results of these activities are recorded in the Risk Management Report (701-3)

Risk Acceptability Criteria

Two Areas of Risk

Risk management does not define acceptable risks; it determines acceptable risks.

Risks are classified into the following two areas

Increased severity for the sake ofsake of

Unacceptable area

Widely acceptable area

ncreased probability of occurrence

Widely acceptable area (GREEN AREA)

The risks are relatively low compared to the benefits of using medical devices.

Unacceptable areas (RED AREA)

Some risks that cannot be reduced are always considered unacceptable. One or more risk control measures must be implemented to reduce the risk to an acceptable level.

Risk Tolerance Criteria

The stages of likelihood and severity should be set to at least three levels, and the risk tolerance standard should be determined based on the acceptable risk level for each product.

Overall Residual Risk Acceptability Assessment

After all risk control measures have been implemented and verified, the quality manager uses the criteria defined in the risk management plan to determine whether the overall residual risk posed by the medical device is acceptable.

If the overall residual risk is determined to be unacceptable based on the criteria established in the risk management plan, the quality manager collects and reviews data to determine whether the medical device's benefits for the intended use outweigh the overall residual risk. If this evidence demonstrates that the medical benefits outweigh the overall residual risk, the overall residual risk can be considered acceptable. Otherwise, the overall residual risk remains unacceptable.

For the overall residual risk determined to be acceptable, the quality manager determines what information to include in the supporting documents to communicate that residual risk.

The results of the overall residual risk assessment are recorded in the risk management report (701-3).

Risk Management Report

Prior to commercial sale of a medical device, the quality manager reviews the risk management process.

The review should ensure at least the following.

1) The risk management plan is properly implemented.

2) The overall residual risk is acceptable.

3) Appropriate methods are in place to obtain relevant production and post-

production information, and the results of these reviews are recorded in

the risk management report and included in the risk management file.

4) The risk management plan is approved by appropriately authorized and

qualified personnel.

Production and Post-Production Information

During the production and post-production stages, the quality manager establishes, documents, and maintains a system for collecting and reviewing information about the medical device or similar devices under production.

When establishing a system to collect and review information about medical devices, the quality manager shall consider the following.

1) Information generated during the production process and production

process monitoring.

2) Information generated by users.

3) Information generated by those responsible for the installation, use, and

maintenance of medical devices.

4) Information generated by the supply chain.

5) Information made available to the general public.

6) Information related to generally accepted state-of-the-art technology.

Examples include: general feedback from medical device users,

distributors, service personnel, and trainers; clinical literature; incident

reports; and publicly available information such as adverse event

databases.

When determining whether the collected information is related to safety, refer to the following.

Are there any previously unrecognized risk factors or hazardous situations?

Are the assessed risks arising from the hazardous situation no longer acceptable?

If any of the above situations apply, evaluate the impact on previously implemented risk management activities and provide feedback as input to the risk management process.

If the residual risk, or its acceptability, is likely to change, reassess the impact of previously implemented risk control measures.

Related Form

No

Record name

Form number

Management Department

Storage period

1

Risk Management Plan

701-1

Development Team

10 years

2

Risk Management Evaluation

701-2

Development Team

10 years

3

Risk Management Reort

701-3

Development Team

10 years
