queueId: ingest-1781569954413-128z
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/01_HAD1717MC(MG)/▶ CE MDD/■ 9. TCF_HAD1717MC, MG 230215 (Rev.7) - Label update/08. PMS & PMCF/1. Post-market Surveillance Plan (A-PMS-001).docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/e8460a91cfc9/1. Post-market Surveillance Plan (A-PMS-001)__e8460a91cfc9_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: aea8128a0072
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 852

SOURCE_TEXT
Post-Market Surveillance Plan

for

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Product name: Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model name: HAD1717MC/HAD1717MG

Name

Position

Date

Signature

Prepared by

Sales Manager

Lee, Changmin

2021.10.01

Reviewed by

R&D Manager

Lee, Dong jin

2021.10.01

Approved by

Quality Manager

Hur, Namkyu

2021.10.01

Revision History

Revision No.

Rev. Date

Revision Description

0

Sep 12. 2019

Initial release

1

Oct 01. 2021

Revision in accordance with application of MDR(EU 2017/745).

Contents

1. Introduction 4

2. Normative references 5

3. Scope 5

4. Objective of the post-market surveillance plan 5

5. Responsibilities and authorities 6

6. Data collection 7

7. Data Assessment 8

8. Continuous re-assessment of the risk management 9

9. Systematic procedures to identify and initiate appropriate measures including corrective actions 10

10. What should be reported 10

11. Communicate with Competent Authorities 11

12. Reference to manufacturers’ obligations 11

Introduction

Post-market surveillance is a set of activities conducted by manufacturers, to collect and evaluate experience gained from medical devices that have been placed on the market, and to identify the need to take any action. Post-market surveillance is a crucial tool to ensure that medical devices continue to be safe and well performing, and to ensure actions are undertaken if the risk of continued use of the medical device outweighs the benefit. The evaluation of post-market surveillance experiences can also highlight opportunities to improve the medical device.

This document provides guidance on the post-market surveillance plan and is intended for use by medical device manufacturers. This post-market surveillance plan is consistent with relevant international standards, in particular ISO 13485 and ISO 14971.

The output of this plan can be used:

— as input into product realization;

— as input into risk management;

— for monitoring and maintaining product requirements;

— for communicating to regulatory authorities; or

— as input into improvement processes.

Figure 1 — Inter-relationship of ISO TR 20416 with ISO 13485 and ISO 14971 standards

Normative references

Applicable national and regional regulations

No.

Region

Applicable national and regional regulations

1

European Union

Regulation (EU) 2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2017

Relevant standards

No.

Standard

Title

1

EN ISO 14971:2019

Medical devices — Application of risk management to medical devices

2

EN ISO 13485:2016

Medical devices — Quality management systems — Requirements for regulatory purposes

Relevant guidelines

No.

Guideline

Title

1

EN ISO/TR 24971:2020

Medical devices — Guidance of the application of ISO 14971

2

MEDDEV 2.12/1 Rev.8

Guidelines on Medical devices Vigilance System

3

ISO/TR 20416:2020

Medical devices — Post-market surveillance for manufacturers

Scope

For PMS activities, the scope is specified using the following information.

Product Name: Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model Name: HAD1717MC(MG)

Family Model Name (if applicable): -

List of Accessories: Power supply box, Data cable, LAN cable, AC power cord, Trigger cable, Installation USB or CD, Installation & User manual

Regulatory classification: Class lla according to Regulation (EU) 2017/745 Annex VIII, Rule 17

Jurisdictions where the medical device is available: Korea, EU and US etc.

Expected lifetime of the medical device: 5 years

Intended purpose(use): The HAD1717MC(MG) is indicated for digital imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic systems and provide more precise case diagnosis and treatment planning on a real time basis for physicians and radiologists. Not to be used for mammography.

Available data related to safety and performance of the medical device:

Document name

Document No.

Risk Management Report

A-RMR-0-01

Usability Engineering Report

A-UER-001

Clinical Evaluation Report

A-CER-01

life cycle stage with regard to product:

series of all phases in the life of a medical device (3.10), from the initial conception to final decommissioning and disposal [SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.51]

Technology maturity in relation to state of the art:

X-ray radiography is the most common medical imaging procedure. In the last two decades, digital radiography has emerged as a viable technology for acquiring x-ray images. Digital radiography offers a number of new capabilities such as post-processing, electronic archival, concurrent access to the images, and improved image distribution. The first of such technologies to become commercially stable was commuted Radiography (CR). More recently, advances in thin-film transistor technology have led to the development of solid-state flat-panel digital radiographic systems. At comparable resolution, these devices offer detective quantum efficiencies (DQEs) Higher than CR and analog scree-film systems.

Currently, there are two general types of flat-panel imaging detectors, direct and indirect, named for the mechanism of x-ray detection they utilize. The indirect flat-panel detectors, which are more common, use a layer of phosphor material that converts x-rays to visible photons. There are also two general types of indirect digital radiographic systems based on the phosphor screens that they employ. In one type, a structured phosphor screen is used as the scintillator, commonly in the form of crystalline CsI Grown in perpen-dicular structures. In the other type, the phosphor screen is turbid in nature with phosphor particles suspended in a layer of binding material. These kinds of indirect detectors often use rare-earth phosphor screens of the type used in screen-film radiography (e.g., Gd2O2S). In either type of detector, the visible photons are subsequently captured by a layer of photodiode pixel elements, where the energy of the light photons is converted to electronic charge. The charges are stored in the capacitors associated with individual pixels. After exposure, the stored charges are read electronically line by line via the panel’s gate and amplifier lines, and the image data are sent to a computer for immediate processing, display, storage, and/or transmission.

The introduction of flat-panel detectors in 2000 led to the development of fully digitalized x-ray systems. Due to their better dose quantum efficiency (DQE), dose reduction could be achieved as compared with conventional film–screen combinations. Further advantages were the instant availability of images and the avoidance of transport of the cassettes to the reading station. Today, digital imaging technology is realized in the majority of radiological departments, creating a filmless workflow. Technical advances and price reductions of hardware and storage media are the reasons why digital imaging now does not suffer from any disadvantages compared with conventional film-based imaging.

These proposed devices are the detectors with indirect energy conversion.

Objective of the post-market surveillance plan

This document aims to define the post-market surveillance plan (PMSP) of the Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector according to MDR. The H&abyz Co., Ltd. shall include the following:

Has any new hazard or hazardous situation been identified for the medical device or similar medical devices or has the risk acceptability changed?

Has any misuse of the medical device occurred?

Are there any unforeseen side-effects for the medical device or similar medical devices?

Is there a medical device malfunction that impacts the benefit-risk analysis?

Do user experience any usability issues?

Responsibilities and authorities

The person responsible for regulatory compliance (PRRC), together with the Application/Product Management Department, is primarily responsible for the implementation and update of the post-market surveillance (PMS) system in accordance with Medical Device Regulation (MDR).

The post market system is based on activities performed by the following departments:

Name

Position

Description

Han, Jimin

Regulation Manager

Issue/update of Technical Files

Hur, Namkyu

Quality Manager

Quality Management

Lee, Dong jin

R&D Manager

Risk Management

Lee, Changmin

Sales Manager

Controlling and shopping products

Hur, Namkyu

Director

Controlling internal process

Data collection

It is the responsibility of the organization to determine and document the sources of post-market surveillance data. The data sources should be appropriate and reliable enough to give information relevant to the specified objectives within the post-market surveillance plan.

The post-market surveillance data of the stethoscope is collected as proactive and reactive.

Proactive

Literature search

Responsibilities R&D

The cycle of collecting data.: Once in two years

Time span: February 23, 2021(Initial CE marking) ~ December 15, 2022

Data collection methods

Pubmed(https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed)

European Radiology(https://www.springer.com/journal/330)

Medical Physics (https://aapm.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/24734209)

Recall information

Responsibilities Quality Management

The cycle of collecting data.: Once in two years

Time span: February 23, 2021(Initial CE marking) ~ December 15, 2022

Data collection methods

FDA Recall (http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfRES/res.cfm)

MHRA Alerts and recalls for drugs and medical devices (UK) (https://www.gov.uk/drug-device-alerts)

MFDA Product recall and Suspension of Sale (Korea) (http://www.mfds.go.kr/index.do?mid=923)

Post-market clinical follow-up studies

Refer to A-PMCF-002 Post-market Clinical Follow-up Plan

Reactive

Information including non-serious incidents and undesirable side-effects related to the Trend Report

Responsibilities: Sales team

The cycle of collecting data: Once in two years

Time span: February 23, 2021(Initial CE marking) ~ December 15, 2022

Data collection methods:

regularly conduct survey of feedback and customer complaints

.

Information, including feedbacks and complaints, provided by users, distributors and importers

Responsibilities Sales team

The cycle of collecting data: Once in two years

Time span: February 23, 2021(Initial CE marking) ~ December 15, 2022

Data collection methods

We regularly conduct customer surveys to investigate feedback and customer complaints.

Data Assessment

Qualitative and quantitative methods are used to assess whether the collected data is related to safety and risk.

quantitative methods

descriptive statistics

Subclause 4.1.1. recall information is evaluated using descriptive statistics.

Subclause 4.2.1 Information including non-serious incidents and undesirable side-effects related to the Trend Report

Method

Trend analysis by charting data of the same attribute over a specified period.

Figure 1. Bar chart showing the number of reported Recall

Figure 2. Changes identified using trend analysis

qualitative methods

content analysis

The following subclauses evaluate data through content analysis.

Subclause 4.1.1. Literature search related to PMCF

Subclause 4.1.3. Other information about similar devices

Subclause 4.2.1 Information including non-serious incidents and undesirable side-effects related to the Trend Report

Subclause 4.2.2. Information, including feedbacks and complaints, provided by users, distributors and importers

The following questions are used for content analysis:(According to ISO/TR 24971:2020)

Is the intended use still valid?

Are the anticipated benefits achieved?

Is there evidence of hazards or hazardous situations not previously identified? For example, did any unforeseen harm occurs?

Are there occurrences of misuse which were previously not foreseen?

Is there an increasing trend of use for applications other than the intended use?

Does the frequency of occurrence of a particular hazardous situation or harm suggest that the probability of occurrence of harm was underestimated?

Does the reported harm indicate that the severity of harm was underestimated?

Is there evidence that the risk control measures are not effective?

Does the evaluation of the overall residual risk accurately represent the actual market experience?

Are there changes in the generally acknowledged state of the art?

Are there indications that the criteria for risk acceptability should be adjusted?

Continuous re-assessment of the risk management

PMS linked to risk management

Safety-related data in 5. data assessment is carried out according to ISO 14971:2019, clause 5. Risk analysis to 7. Risk control. A schematic representation of the risk management process is provided in Fig. 1.

These procedures and results are recorded in risk management report (A-RMR-0-01) and PSUR (A-PSUR-002).

Systematic procedures to identify and initiate appropriate measures including preventive actions and corrective actions

Preventive actions and corrective actions is taken to eliminate the cause of a potential or actual non-conformity or other undesirable situation. Preventive actions and corrective actions are conducted if the assessed data cannot be accepted risk through risk management.

Preventive actions and corrective action shall be carried out according to the following procedure.

The impact of the collected information on previously implemented risk control measures is evaluated to see if these measures are still effective and sufficient to reduce the risk.

The results of this evaluation should be considered as an input for modification of the medical device.

If appropriate, the steps of ISO 14971:2019 Clauses5 to 7 are repeated and new/additional risk control measures are implemented.

The updated risk assessment and the implemented risk control measures are recorded in the risk management file.

It could be necessary to evaluate the overall residual risk again in relation to the benefits of the intended use of the medical device.

It could also be necessary to repeat the risk management review and to prepare anew risk management report.

What should be reported

the manufacturer (or their economic operator) should send an investigation report to the competent authority, in the following circumstances:

Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR)

Our product is Class lla, so we report the PSUR when the certification authority requires it.

Classification

When to update the PSUR

Time to report to competent authorities

Applicable/ Not applicable

Class IIa

When necessary and at least every two years

Report when required by the notified body

applicable

Class IIb and Class III

At least annually

Report when required by the notified body

Not applicable

Class III or Implantable device

At least annually

Every year

Not applicable

See the Periodic Safety Update Report (Document No. A-PSUR-004) for more information.

Filed Safety Corrective Actions (FSCA)

Discovery of a serious public health threat

When use of a medical device led to:

– death of a user, patient/client or other person;

– serious deterioration in health of a user, patient/client or other person.

What to report

Time to report to NB

Serious public health threat

IMMEDIATELY (without any delay that could not be justified) but not later than 2 calendar days after awareness by the MANUFACTURER of this threat.

Death or UNANTICIPATED serious deterioration in state of health

: IMMEDIATELY (without any delay that could not be justified) after the MANUFACTURER established a link between the device and the event but not later than 10 elapsed calendar days following the date of awareness of the event.

Others

IMMEDIATELY (without any delay that could not be justified) after the MANUFACTURER established a link between the device and the event but not later than 30 elapsed calendar days following the date of awareness of the event.

Communicate with Competent Authorities

Communication with Competent Authorities follows the AQP808 Vigilance System procedure.

 Reference to manufacturers’ obligations

Reference to procedures to fulfil the manufacturers obligations laid down in Articles 83, 84 and 86 of the MDR.

For each device, manufacturers shall plan, establish, document, implement, maintain and update a post-market surveillance system in a manner that is proportionate to the risk class and appropriate for the type of device. That system shall be an integral part of the manufacturer's quality management system referred to in Article 10(9).

Refer to A-PMS-001 Post-Market Surveillance Plan

If, in the course of the post-market surveillance, a need for preventive or corrective action or both is identified, the manufacturer shall implement the appropriate measures and inform the competent authorities concerned and, where applicable, the notified body. Where a serious incident is identified or a field safety corrective action is implemented, it shall be reported in accordance with Article 87.

Refer to AQP808 Vigilance System procedure., Attachment 1. Field Safety Corrective Action

The post-market surveillance system referred to in Article 83 shall be based on a post-market surveillance plan, the requirements for which are set out in Section 1.1 of Annex III. For devices other than custom-made devices, the post- market surveillance plan shall be part of the technical documentation specified in Annex II.

Refer to A-PMS-001 Post-Market Surveillance Plan

Manufacturers of class I devices shall prepare a post-market surveillance report summarising the results and conclusions of the analyses of the post-market surveillance data gathered as a result of the post-market surveillance plan referred to in Article 84 together with a rationale and description of any preventive and corrective actions taken. The report shall be updated when necessary and made available to the competent authority upon request.

Not Applicable. This is a class Ila medical device.

Manufacturers of class IIa, class IIb and class III devices shall prepare a periodic safety update report (‘PSUR’) for each device and where relevant for each category or group of devices summarising the results and conclusions of the analyses of the post-market surveillance data gathered as a result of the post-market surveillance plan referred to in Article 84 together with a rationale and description of any preventive and corrective actions taken.

Refer to A-PSUR-002 Periodic Safety Update Report

Manufacturers of class IIb and class III devices shall update the PSUR at least annually. That PSUR shall, except in the case of custom-made devices, be part of the technical documentation as specified in Annexes II and III.

Not Applicable. This is a class Ila medical device.

Manufacturers of class IIa devices shall update the PSUR when necessary and at least every two years. That PSUR shall, except in the case of custom-made devices, be part of the technical documentation as specified in Annexes II and III.

Refer to A-PSUR-002 Periodic Safety Update Report

For custom-made devices, the PSUR shall be part of the documentation referred to in Section 2 of Annex XIII.

Not Applicable.

For class III devices or implantable devices, manufacturers shall submit PSURs by means of the electronic system referred to in Article 92 to the notified body involved in the conformity assessment in accordance with Article 52. The notified body shall review the report and add its evaluation to that electronic system with details of any action taken. Such PSURs and the evaluation by the notified body shall be made available to competent authorities through that electronic system.

Not Applicable. This is a class Ila medical device.

For other than class III devices or implantable devices, manufacturers shall make PSURs available to the notified body involved in the conformity assessment and, upon request, to competent authorities.

Not Applicable. This is a class Ila medical device.
