queueId: ingest-1781569954389-ioq
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/02_ADD (HAD1417MCW)/▶ FDA/참조 문서/3. Usability (IEC 62366)/Usability Engineering Report (Doc. No. UER-01, Rev.0).docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/5279e7833386/Usability Engineering Report (Doc. No. UER-01, Rev.0)__5279e7833386_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: f03f8e05c882
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 885

SOURCE_TEXT
Usability Engineering Report

According to IEC 62366:2007 + A1:2014

Device Description

Product Name

Model Name

Document Number

UER-01

Preparation, Review and Approval of the document

Prepared by

Reviewed by

Approved by

Name

Position

Assistant Manager

External Clinical Evaluator

CEO

Date

2018.02.10

2018.02.10

2018.02.10

Signature

Revision History

No.

Rev. No.

Description of changes

Date

1

0

Initial Release

2018.10.23

Contents

1 Introduction 4

2 Reference 4

3 Terms and Definitions 4

4 Usability Engineering Plan 7

4.1 Organization for Usability Engineering Process 7

4.2 Responsibility and Personnel 7

4.3 Usability Engineering Process and Requirements 7

5 Usability Engineering Process 11

5.1 Application Specification 11

5.1.1 Intended Medical Indication 11

5.1.2 Intended Patient Population 11

5.1.3 Intended part of the body or type of tissue applied to or interacted with 11

5.1.4 Intended USER PROFILE 11

5.1.5 Intended Conditions of Use 12

5.1.6 Operating Principle 12

5.2 Frequently Used Functions 13

5.3 Identification of HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS related to Usability 13

5.3.1 Identification of Characteristics related to Safety 13

5.3.2 Identification of Known or foreseeable HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS 14

5.4 Primary Operating Functions 16

5.4.1 Frequently used functions 16

5.4.2 Functions related to Safety 16

5.5 Usability Specification 16

5.5.1 Use Scenarios related to the primary operating function 16

5.5.2 USER INTERFACE Requirements for the PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS, including those to Mitigate Risk 17

5.5.3 Requirements for determining whether PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS are easily recognizable by the USER 17

5.5.4 Testable requirements for Usability of the Primary Operating Functions 18

5.6 Usability Validation Plan 19

5.7 User Interface Design and Implementation 19

5.8 Usability Verification 19

5.8.1 Usability Verification Result 20

5.9 Usability Validation 20

6 Conclusion 20

Introduction

This document specifies a process for a manufacturer to analyse, specify, design, verify and validate usability, as it relates to safety of CCCCC. This usability engineering process assesses and mitigates risks caused by usability problems associated with correct use and use errors, i.e. NORMAL USE.

Manufacturer:

AAAAA

Product Name:

BBBBB

Model Name:

CCCCC

Reference

EN 60601-1-6:2010 Medical electrical equipment Part 1-6: General requirements for safety – Collateral standard: UsabilityIEC 60601-1-6:2010 + A1:2013 Medical electrical equipment Part 1-6: General requirements for safety – Collateral standard: Usability

EN 62366 [2008] Application of usability engineering to medical devicesIEC 62366:2007+A1:2014 Application of usability engineering to medical devices

EN ISO 14971[2012] Medical devices – Application of risk management to medical devicesISO 14971 [2007] Medical devices -- Application of risk management to medical devices

Terms and Definitions

Abnormal use

Intentional act or intentional omission of an act by the RESPONSIBLE ORGANIZATION or USER of a MEDICAL DEVICE as a result of conduct that is beyond any further reasonable means of RISK CONTROL by the MANUFACTURER.

Accompanying document

Accompanying a MEDICAL DEVICE and containing information for those accountable for the installation, use and maintenance of the MEDICAL DEVICE or the USER, particularly regarding SAFETY.

Alarm limit

Threshold used by an ALARM SYSTEM to determine an ALARM CONDITION.

Alarm off

State of indefinite duration in which an ALARM SYSTEM or part of an ALARM SYSTEM does not generate ALARM SIGNALS.

Alarm signal

Type of signal generated by the ALARM SYSTEM to indicate the presence (or occurrence) of an ALARM CONDITION.

Alarm system

Parts of the MEDICAL DEVICE that detect ALARM CONDITIONS and, as appropriate, generate ALARM SIGNALS.

Correct use

NORMAL USE without USE ERROR.

Effectiveness

Measure of accuracy and completeness with which USERS achieve specified goals.

Efficiency

EFFECTIVENESS in relation to the resources expended.

Information signal

Any signal that is not an ALARM SIGNAL or a REMINDER SIGNAL.

Medical device

Any instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, appliance, implant, in vitro reagent or calibrator, software, material or other similar or related article, intended by the MANUFACTURER to be used, alone or in combination, for human beings for one or more of the specific purpose(s) of

diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, alleviation of or compensation for an injury,

investigation, replacement, modification, or support of the anatomy or of a physiological PROCESS,

supporting or sustaining life,

control of conception,

disinfection of MEDICAL DEVICES,

providing information for medical purposes by means of in vitro examination of specimens derived from the human body,

and which does not achieve its primary intended action in or on the human body by pharmacological, immunological or metabolic means, but which can be assisted in its function by such means.

Normal use

Operation, including routine inspection and adjustments by any USER, and stand-by, according to the instructions for use or in accordance with generally accepted practice for those MEDICAL DEVICES provided without instructions for use.

Patient

Living being (person) undergoing a medical, surgical or dental procedure.

Primary operating function

Function that involves USER interaction that is either frequently used or related to the SAFETY of the MEDICAL DEVICE.

Reminder signal

Periodic signal that reminds the USE that the ALARM SYSTEM is in an ALARM SIGNAL inactivation state.

Responsible organization

Entity accountable for the use and maintenance of a MEDICAL DEVICE or combination of MEDICAL DEVICES.

Usability

Characteristic of the USER INTERFACE that establishes EFFECTIVENESS, EFFICIENCY, ease of USER learning and USER satisfaction.

Usability engineering

Application of knowledge about human behavior, abilities, limitations, and other characteristics related to the design of tools, devices, systems, tasks, jobs, and environments to achieve adequate USABILITY.

Usability engineering file

Set of RECORDS and other documents that are produced by the USABILITY ENGINEERING PROCESS.

Usability specification

Documentation defining the USER INTERFACE requirements related to USABILITY.

Use error

Act or omission of an act that results in a different MEDICAL DEVICE response than intended by the MANUFACTURER or expected by the USER.

note1) Use error includes slips, lapses, and mistakes.

note2) an unexpected physiological response of the PATIENT is not in itself considered USE ERROR.

Use scenario

Specified sequence of events and tasks as performed by a specified USER in a specified environment.

User

Person suing, i.e. operating or handing, the MEDICAL DEVICE.

note1) this includes, but is not limited to, cleaners, maintainers and installers. note2) PATIENTS or other laypersons can be USERS.

User interface

Men by which the USER and the MEDICAL DEVICE interact.

Note) The ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENT is considered part of the MEDICAL DEVICE and its USER INTERFACE.

User profile

Summary of the mental, physical and demographic traits of an intended USER population, as well as any special characteristics that can have a bearing on design decisions, such as occupational skills and job requirements.

Validation

Confirmation, through the provision of OBJECTIVE EVIDENCE, that the requirements for a specific INTENDED USE or application have been fulfilled

Usability Engineering Plan

Organization for Usability Engineering Process

Responsibility and Personnel

No.

Position

Responsibility

1

President

Human and material resources assignment

Usability goals provided

2

R&D Director

Usability engineering process planning

Risk management for usability engineering

3

R&D Team

Prepare of Usability engineering File

4

QA Manager and Sales Manager

Participation for Usability Engineering validation

Usability Engineering Process and Requirements

Usability Process

Requirements

Application specification

- Description, intended use

- Medical purpose

- Intended PATIENT population

- Intended part of the body or type of tissue applied to or interacted with

- Intended user profile

- Intended conditions of use

- Operating principle

Frequently used functions

Shall determine the frequently used functions that involve user interaction with the medical device.

Characteristics related to safety

An identification of characteristics related to safety (part of a RISK ANALYSIS) that focuses on usability shall be performed according to ISO 14971:2012, 4.2. During the identification characteristics related to safety, the following shall be considered:

- application specification, including user profile(s); and

- Frequently used functions.

Identification of known or foreseeable HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS

Shall identify known or foreseeable HAZARDS (part of a RISK ANALYSIS) related to usability according to ISO 14971:2012, 4.3. The identification of HAZARDS shall consider HAZARDS to patients, users and other persons. The SEVERITY of the resulting possible HARM shall be determined.

The following shall be considered:

- application specification, including user profile(s)

- task related requirements;

- context of use;

- information on HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS known for existing user INTERFACES of MEDICAL DEVICES of a similar type, if available;

- preliminary use scenarios;

- possible use errors

- if an incorrect mental model of the operation of the medical device can cause a use error resulting in a HAZARDOUS SITUATION; and

- Results of the review of the user interface.

Primary operating functions

The inputs to the primary operating functions shall include the following:

- frequently used functions

- Functions related to safety of the medical device.

Usability specification

The usability specification shall provide:

- testable requirements for usability verification; and

- testable requirements for usability of the primary operating functions including criteria for determining the adequacy of risk control achieved by the usability engineering process.

The inputs to the usability specification shall include the following: - application specification;

- primary operating functions;

- HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS related to usability; and

- Known or foreseeable use errors associated with the medical device.

The usability specification shall describe at least:

- use scenarios related to the primary operating functions, including;

- frequent use scenarios; and -reasonably foreseeable worst case use scenarios;

- user interface requirements for the primary operating functions, including those to mitigate risk;

- Requirements for determining whether primary operating functions are easily recognizable by the user.

Usability validation plan

The usability validation plan shall specify:

- any method used for validation of the usability of the primary operating functions;

- the criteria for determining successful validation of the usability of the primary operating functions based on the usability specification; and

- The involvement of representative intended users.

User interface design and implementation

Risk control uses one or more of the following in the priority listed: a) inherent safety by design;

b) protective measures in the medical device itself or in the manufacturing process, e.g. alarm systems;

c) Information for safety, e.g. warnings in the instructions for use, display of a monitored variable, training and materials for training, maintenances details.

Usability verification

Shall verify the implementation of the medical device user interface design against the requirements of the usability specification.

If it is unsatisfactory, repeat the previous steps to run.

Usability validation

Shall validate usability of the medical device according to the usability validation plan.

If the acceptance criteria documented in the usability validation plan are not met:

- further user interface design and implementation activities shall be performed; or

- if further improvement is not practicable, the manufacturer may gather and review data and literature to determine if the medical benefits of the intended use outweigh the risk arising from usability problems. If this evidence does not support the conclusion that the medical benefits outweigh the risk, then the risk is unacceptable.

The accompanying document shall include a concise description of the medical device which includes, where relevant to its use:

- operating principle;

- significant physical characteristics;

- significant performance characteristics; and

- intended user profile.

If training on the specific medical device is required for the safe and effective use of a primary operating function by the intended user, the manufacturer shall do at least one of the following :

- provide the material necessary for training;

- ensure that the materials necessary for training are available; or

- provide the training.

Production and post-production information

Review if the system that collect and review information of medical devices are established.

Usability Engineering Process

Application Specification

Intended Medical Indication

AAAAA는 진단, 수술 및 중재 시술 중에 환자의 투시 및 방사선 사진을 제공하도록 설계된 모바일 C-arm입니다. 임상 적용의 예는 정형외과, 국소 돌연변이, 중환자실 돌발 및 응급실, 즉 X-선 촬영 또는 수술실 내외 및 중재를 필요로 하는 외과적 중재를 포함할 수 있습니다.

Intended Patient Population

a) Ages: Adult (More than 15 years)

b) Weight: More than 25Kg

c) Health: No special requirements

d) Nationality: No special requirements

e) The patient condition:

- If Patients can control their own movement: No special requirement

- If Patients cannot control their own movement: Use assistive device (wheelchair, patient table) or assistant, etc.

Intended part of the body or type of tissue applied to or interacted with

a) Using part: 1) Hand / Foot

 2) Rib

b) Condition:

c) Purpose: Relief the pain

Intended USER PROFILE

It is important to design a MEDICAL DEVICE tailored to the intended USER. Factors that should be considered when developing user profile include education, knowledge, language, experience and disability. We considered the factors as follows.

a) Education: The need for the provision of educational materials

b) Knowledge: Understanding the user manual

c) Language understanding: English/Korea

d) Experience: Not require any special experience. But we recommend training on how to use

e) To allow a disability:

- Mild reading eyesight impairment or corrected eyesight on log MAR 0.2(6/10 or

20/32)

- Equipment along the one touch or grasp the arm / hand

- Average degree of age-related short-term memory damage

- 40% damage due to normal hearing ranging from 500Hz to 2kHz.

Intended Conditions of Use

Environment:

General

Place in home environment

Operation condition

Temperature: 10℃ to 40℃

Humidity: 30 to 75% relative humidity (non-condensing)

Storage condition

Temperature: -20℃ to 40℃

Humidity: 10 to 95% relative humidity (non-condensing)

Air Pressure: 500 hPa to 1100hPa

Visibility condition

Ambient luminance range: 300 to 750 lux

Viewing distance: 20 to 40 cm

Viewing angle: normal to the display (± 20 °)

Frequency of use

Less than 9 hours per day

Operating Principle

This product has the function of OOOOO. In order to operate the unit, power is supplied from the ~~~~

Frequently Used Functions

전원 On

제품 위치 조정

노출모드 설정

조사 조건(kVp, mA) 설정

Image processing setting

Collimator 조정

Image 획득

실시간 모니터 프로그램을 사용하여 모니터링

비상 시 Emergency Switch 사용

환자 관리

Identification of HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS related to Usability

Identification of Characteristics related to Safety

EN 62366 Annex E Question check list

EN 62366 Annex E Question

A or N/A

Comments

E.2.1 Is the Medical device supplied sterile or intended to be sterilized by the user, or are other microbiological controls applicable?

E.2.2 Are Measurements taken?

E.2.3 Is the Medical device intended for use in conjunction with medicines or other medical technologies?

E.2.4 Are there unwanted outputs of energy or substances?

E.2.5 Is the Medical device susceptible to environmental Influences?

E.2.6 Are there essential consumables or accessories associated with the Medical device?

E.2.7 Is maintenance and/or calibration necessary

E.2.8 Does the Medical device have a restricted shelf-life?

E.2.9 Are there any delayed or long term use effects?

E.2.10 To what mechanical forces will the Medical device subjected?

E.2.11 Is the Medical device intended for Single use?

E.2.12 Does installation or use of the Medical device require special training or special skills?

E.2.13 How will information for safe use be provided?

E.2.14 Can the user interface design features contribute to use error?

E.2.15 Is the Medical device used in an environment where distractions are common place?

E.2.16 Does the Medical device have connecting parts or accessories?

E.2.17 Does the Medical device have a control interface?

E.2.18 How is information displayed by the Medical device?

E.2.19 Is the Medical device controlled by a menu?

E.2.20 Will the Medical device be used by persons with special needs?

E.2.21 In what way(s) might the Medical device be deliberately misused?

E.2.22 Is the Medical device intended to be mobile or portable?

Identification of Known or foreseeable HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS

IEC 62366 Hazards

ID No.

Example

A or N/A

Harm to User or Patient

Spatial context

architecture

outdoor

Patient transport

Smoothness and inclination or floor

location of emergency or accident

Social context

organization

Transition of care

Presence of unattended children

Presence of untrained or curious adults

responsibility

Technological context

Other technical devices which are required for use of the MD

Other technical devices which might influence the use of the MD

Other technical devices which are affected by the use of the MD

Effect of other devices on the MD

Hygienic context

Requirements for cleanliness sterile condition

Facilities for cleaning

Facilities for waste disposal

Physical context:

climate condition

Acceleration movement of frame of reference

light level

ambient noise

Activity context

distraction

Other tasks which can interfere with the operation of the MD

surprise/startle effect

strain and stress

Influence on the working environment

Alterations of the work environment that could affect other MD

workload and fatigue

Possible use errors

Control error

Device Setting error

Operation error

Environment error

Application specification, including user profile(s)

Task related requirements

Information on hazards and hazardous situations known for existing user interfaces of medical devices of a similar type, if available

Preliminary use scenarios

If an incorrect mental model of the operation of the medical device can cause a use error resulting in a hazardous situation

Results of the review of the user interface

Primary Operating Functions

Frequently used functions

Please refer to the Clause ‘5.2 Frequently used functions’

Functions related to Safety

Switch

The user must be able to easily find the Turn-on/off, emergency switch button for safety

User manual

User manual must be written using the language of the intended user

Insert clearly understood pictures for users who do not know the language provided

The intended user should be able to understand the instructions and how to use them: It includes:

- Turn on/off the device

- Charge the device

Usability Specification

Use Scenarios related to the primary operating function

Frequent use scenarios

전원 On

C-arm 본체 좌측 옆면의 전원 공급선을 모니터 카트 정면의 소켓과 연결

모니터 카트의 전원 케이블을 전원 소켓(벽전원)에 연결

모니터 카트 우측 옆면에 있는 주전원 스위치를 On

모니터 카트 전면 좌측에 있는 On 버튼을 누름

제품 위치 조정

C-arc 조정

C-arc 궤도 구동

C-arc 전후 이동

C-arc Panning

C-arc Up/Down

노출모드 설정

조사 조건(kVp, mA) 설정

수동 설정

Anatomic mode (Bodypart)를 사용하여 적합한 조사조건을 설정

Image processing setting

Collimator 조정

Image 획득

Radiography (Film mode)를 사용하여 이미지 획득

Fluoroscopy mode를 사용하여 이미지 획득

DR mode를 사용하여 이미지 획득

실시간 모니터 프로그램을 사용하여 모니터링

PVCARM 실행

Active Image Display

촬영 중 이미지 및 동영상 Capture

Image print

비상 시 Emergency Switch 사용

환자 관리

환자 정보 등록

환자 정보 관리

환자 정보 검색

환자 이미지 전송

Use Scenarios related to the Reasonably Foreseeable Worst Case

The manual is written so that users understand the product hardly.

User does not position the product properly because the manual does not indicate the proper location for positioning the product

User cannot turn on the product because user does not know how to turn on the device properly

User does not check the operation of the device before using the device.

User does not know the operation is finished

User does not know how to clean the device

User does not know how to storage the device

USER INTERFACE Requirements for the PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS, including those to Mitigate Risk

Write user-friendly, easy-to-understand instructions on how to use the product.

Add the instructions about the proper location for positioning the product in the manual

Add the instructions how to turn on the device

Add the instructions that check the operation of the device before using the device

Add the instructions that the sound means that operation is finished

Add the instructions how to clean the device

Add the instructions how to storage the device

Requirements for determining whether PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS are easily recognizable by the USER

Font style/font size of the user manual

The switch for the PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS is marked using icon for easy identification

Testable requirements for Usability of the Primary Operating Functions

ACT #1)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators understand the method of the using the device without the manual?

ACT #2)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators understand the product properly?

ACT #3)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators understand the method for using the device with the manual

ACT #4)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators turn on the product properly?

ACT #5)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators turn on the product properly?

ACT #6)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators check the operation of the device before using the device?

ACT #7)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators position the product properly?

ACT #8)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators know the operation is finished?

ACT #9)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators know how to clean the device?

ACT #10)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators know how to storage the device?

Usability Validation Plan

Refer to Usability Validation Plan (Doc. No. UVP-01)

User Interface Design and Implementation

We design the User Interface including the following requirements. Refer to ‘5.5.2 USER INTERFACE requirements for the PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS, including those to mitigate risk’ and ‘5.5.4 Requirements for determining whether PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS are easily recognizable by the USER.’

Usability Verification Checklist

UI ID No.

UI Item

UI Requirement

UI Specification

UI-01

Button

Button

Power button, Emergency stop button, functional button (LCD)

Location and size of the button

UI-02

Manual

Understanding

Simplify language for ease of understanding and use visuals and graphics to facilitate

UI-03

Safety instruction

To meet the labelling requirement according to IEC 60601-1

User manual

UI-04

Language

Korean, English

UI-05

Product Label

Understanding

Symbols and description

Usability Verification

In the Clause 5.7 ‘User Interface design and Implementation’, It contains the UI that must be designed for the product, and it is verified in this clause that the UI implemented in the product. The details of each UI are mentioned in the Column of Clause 5.7 (UI Requirement, UI specification). For each item, proceed with verification as shown in the following table.

UI ID Number

Testable requirements

Result

Write the UI ID Number identified in Clause 5.7

Ensure that the items mentioned in the column of Clause 5.7 ('UI Requirement', 'UI Specification') are implemented in the product.

If there are any deficiencies in the Requirement and Specification, please fill them out in this column.

If everything is satisfied, write 'No issues' in this column.

If the verification for each UI ID Number is ‘No issues’ in the verification column, It is ‘pass’. And if there are deficiencies in the verification column, it is ‘non-pass’.

Usability Verification Result

UI ID Number

Verification

Result

UI-01

No issues

Pass

UI-02

No issues

Pass

UI-03

No issues

Pass

UI-04

No issues

Pass

UI-05

No issues

Pass

Usability Validation

Refer to Usability Validation Report (Doc. No. UVR-01)

Conclusion

So far advanced risk management process is able to promote the safety of the product through the identification of hazards and risk control measures are sufficient.

The control measure for individual residual risk was the major action to reduce the levels of total residual risk. Through overall residual risk assessment, we are confirmed that overall of the residual risk can be accepted.
