queueId: ingest-1781569954374-4az
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/02_ADD (HAD1417MCW)/▶ FDA/참조 문서/3. Usability (IEC 62366)/Usability Validation Plan (Doc. No. UVP-01, Rev.0).docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/8bf50e8a3fc2/Usability Validation Plan (Doc. No. UVP-01, Rev.0)__8bf50e8a3fc2_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: cff909e4a8bb
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 304

SOURCE_TEXT
Usability Validation Plan

According to IEC 62366

Device Description

Product Name

Model Name

Document Number

UVP-01

Preparation, Review and Approval of the document

Prepared by

Reviewed by

Approved by

Name

Position

Assistant Manager

External Clinical Evaluator

CEO

Date

2018.02.10

2018.02.10

2018.02.10

Signature

Revision History

No.

Rev. No.

Description of changes

Date

1

0

Established by manufacturer’s Risk Management Policy

2016.07.31

Contents

1 Document Overview 4

2 Methodology 4

2.1 Participants 4

2.2 Training 4

2.3 Procedure 4

2.4 Roles 5

2.4.1 Trainer 5

2.4.2 Facilitator 5

2.4.3 Data Logger 5

2.4.4 Test Observers 6

2.4.5 Test participants 6

3 Usability Metrics 7

3.1 Scenarios Completion 7

3.2 Errors Classification 7

3.3 Subjective Evaluations 8

4 Usability Tasks (Test scenarios) 9

4.1 4.1 Use scenarios related to the primary operating functions. 9

4.2 Use scenarios related to the reasonably foreseeable worst case 11

5 Usability Test Method 12

6 Usability Goals 14

6.1 Completion Rate 14

6.2 Number of Errors 14

7 Reporting Results 15

8 References 15

Document Overview

This document describes a test plan for conducting a usability test during the development of 제품명. The goals of usability testing include establishing a baseline of user performance, establishing and validating user performance measures, and identifying potential design concerns to be addressed in order to improve the efficiency, productivity, and end-user satisfaction.

The usability test objectives are:

To construct the benchmarks of user attributes

To identify potential design problems to be solve

To improve product design and production efficiency

To complete end-user satisfaction maximization

Methodology

Participants

The participants' responsibilities will be to attempt to complete a set of representative usability scenarios presented to them in as efficient and timely a manner as possible, and to provide feedback regarding the usability and acceptability of the user interface. The participants will be directed to provide honest opinions regarding the usability of the application, and to participate in post-session subjective questionnaires and debriefing.

A total 3 participants should be at least equal to the following User Profile used in the Usability test.

a) Education: At least two year of university, equal or more

b) Knowledge: User who meet the legal qualification for each country

c) Language understanding: User who are understand the English

d) Experience: Not require any special experience

e) To allow a disability:

- Mild reading eyesight impairment or corrected eyesight on log MAR 0.2(6/10 or

20/32)

- Equipment along the one touch or grasp the arm / hand

- Average degree of age-related short-term memory damage

- 40% damage due to normal hearing ranging from 500Hz to 2kHz.

Training

The participants will receive and overview of the usability test procedure, equipment and software.

Procedure

Participants will take part in the usability test at the testing lab. The 제품명 will be used in a typical operating environment described in usability engineering report. The participant’s interaction with the 제품명 will be monitored by the facilitator seated in the same place. Note takers and data logger(s) will monitor the sessions in observation room.

The facilitator will brief the participants on the 제품명 and instruct the participant that they are evaluating the application, rather than the facilitator evaluating the participant. Participants will sign an informed consent that acknowledges: the participation is voluntary, that participation can cease at any time. The facilitator will ask the participant if they have any questions.

Participants will complete a pretest demographic and background information questionnaire. The facilitator will explain that the amount of time taken to complete the test task will be measured and that exploratory behavior outside the task flow should not occur until after task completion. At the start of each task, the participant will read aloud the task description from the printed copy and begin the task. Time-on-task measurement begins when the participant starts the task.

The facilitator will instruct the participant to ‘think aloud’ so that a verbal record exists of their interaction with the 제품명. The facilitator will observe and enter user behavior, user comments, and system actions in the data logging application.

After each task, the participant will complete the post-task questionnaire and elaborate on the task session with the facilitator. After all task scenarios are attempted, the participant will complete the post-test satisfaction questionnaire.

Roles

The roles involved in a usability test are as follows. An individual may play multiple roles and tests may not require all roles.

Ethics

All persons involved with the usability test are required to adhere to the following ethical guidelines:

The performance of any test participant must not be individually attributable. Individual participant's name should not be used in reference outside the testing session.

A description of the participant's performance should not be reported.

Trainer

Provide training overview prior to usability testing

Facilitator

Provides overview of study to participants

Defines usability and purpose of usability testing to participants

Assists in conduct of participant and observer debriefing sessions

Responds to participant's requests for assistance

Data Logger

Records participant’s actions and comments

Test Observers

Silent observer

Assists the data logger in identifying problems, concerns, coding bugs, and procedural errors

Serve as note takers.

Test participants

Provides overview of study to participants

Defines usability and purpose of usability testing to participants

Assists in conduct of participant and observer debriefing sessions

Responds to participant's requests for assistance

Usability Metrics

Usability metrics refers to user performance measured against specific performance goals necessary to satisfy usability requirements. Scenario completion success rates, adherence to dialog scripts, error rates, and subjective evaluations will be used. Time-to-completion of scenarios will also be collected.

Scenarios Completion

Each scenario will require, or request, that the participant obtains or inputs specific data that would be used in course of a typical task. The scenario is completed when the participant indicates the scenario's goal has been obtained (whether successfully or unsuccessfully) or the participant requests and receives sufficient guidance as to warrant scoring the scenario as a critical error.

Errors Classification

Critical Errors

In general, Critical errors are unresolved errors during the process of completing the task or errors that produce an incorrect outcome regarding the safety. Also critical error is that participants may not be aware that the task goal is incorrect or incomplete.

Critical errors can also be assigned when the participant initiates (or attempts to initiate) and action that will result in the goal state becoming unobtainable.

Non-critical Errors

In general, Non-critical errors are an error that would not have an impact on the final output of the task but would result in the task being completed less efficiently.

Non-critical errors are errors that are recovered from by the participant or, if not detected, do not result in processing problems or unexpected results. Although non-critical errors can be undetected by the participant, when they are detected they are generally frustrating to the participant.

These errors may be procedural, in which the participant does not complete a scenario in the most optimal means (e.g., excessive steps and keystrokes). These errors may also be errors of confusion (ex., initially selecting the wrong function, using a user-interface control incorrectly such as attempting to edit an un-editable field).

Rating: The number of errors occurring (EA)

Subjective Evaluations

Subjective opinions about specific tasks, time to perform each task, features, and functionality will be surveyed and collected via questionnaires. At the end of the test, participants will rate their satisfaction with the overall system. These data are used to assess attitudes of the participants. The questionnaires will utilize free-form responses and rating scales.

Post-test satisfaction questionnaire

Rating:

The 5-point rating scale ranged from 1 (Strongly disagree) to 5 (Strongly agree)

Contents

Description

User manual

Users understand exactly the warnings and cautions in user manual after reading the user manual.

Usefulness

Users think the device is useful.

Ease of Use

Users think the operation of the device is easy.

Ease of Learning

Users think it’s easy to learn.

User Interface Test

Use the UI

Usability Tasks (Test scenarios)

The usability tasks were derived from test scenarios developed from use cases and/or with the assistance of a subject-matter expert. Due to the range and extent of functionality provided in the 제품명, and the short time for which each participant will be available, the tasks are the most common and relatively complex of available functions. The tasks are identical for all participants of a given user role in the study.

The task descriptions below are required to be reviewed by the application owner, business-process owner, development owner, and/or deployment manager to ensure that the content, format, and presentation are representative of real use and substantially evaluate the total application. Their acceptance is to be documented prior to usability test.

4.1 Use scenarios related to the primary operating functions.

Turn on the device

1.1 Battery mode

 1.1.1 Turn on a main Power circuit breaker (CB) located at REAR of a main cabinet.

 1.1.2 Turn a selection key switch to ON position.

 1.2 AC mode

 1.2.1 Connect to commercial power supply by using power cord.

 1.2.2 Turn off a main Power circuit breaker (CB) located at REAR of a main cabinet.

 1.2.3 Turn a selection key switch to ON position.

X-ray exposure technique selection

Manual Mode

Set the kV value by kV dial

Set the mAs value by mAs dial

APR Mode

Set the kV/mAs by selecting the button (No.1 – No.8)

Select radiographic procedure & sequence

Select kV &mAs manually in proper technique

Set a cassette with a film or equivalent to a radiographic position

Turn on collimator light and adjust X-ray field size

Expose the x-ray

Press at first step the hand switch

Check the READY lamp (Green LED in approximately 2 seconds)

Press at second step the hand switch (Yellow LED)

Wait 20 seconds after previous exposure completed (Red LED)

Charge the battery

When the battery status indicator gets yellow or red color, User charges the battery

Make sure that both main power switchand power key switch are all at OFF position.

Connect power cord into power outlet.

Set the main power switch at “ON” position.

Keep a power key switch positioned at “CHG” more than 3 seconds. Once the yellow lamp

flashing of the message “BATTERY STATUS” shows that the charge initiated, the operator

can take his/her hands off key switch. When a charge approaches it for the completion,

the charge status indicator green lamp blinks. It is programmed that the charge status

indicator turns off automatically when the charging is complete.Total chage time is

about 10 hours.

To stop charging, push the collimator lamp switch and key switch turns off if key is not

off.

Main power switch should be at “OFF”

Replace the plug from the power supply

Use scenarios related to the reasonably foreseeable worst case

The manual is written so that users understand the product hardly.

User does not position the product properly because the manual does not indicate the proper location for positioning the product

User cannot turn on the product because user does not know how to turn on the device properly

User does not check the operation of the device before using the device.

User does not know the operation is finished

User does not know how to clean the device

User does not know how to storage the device

Radiation of incorrectly set X-rays happen because user does not know how to set the condition.

X-ray radiation suddenly occurs because user does not know how to irradiate X-ray.

** Task Process

Explain the activities to user.

Take rest for 30min.

After activities, record the results to ‘usability validation evaluation’ by interview.

Records by check type.

Validator judges according to the acceptance criteria.

Validator let the non-compatible items to the acceptance criteria be applied to user interface design and redesigned parts shall be re-validated by above process.

Usability Test Method

ACT #1)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators understand the method of the using the device without the manual?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the user understand the method of the using the device properly

ACT #2)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators understand the product properly?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the user understand the product properly

ACT #3)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators set the condition properly?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the user set the condition properly

ACT #4)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators irradiate X-ray properly?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the user irradiate X-ray properly

ACT #5)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators turn on the product properly?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the user turn on the product properly

ACT #6)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators check the operation of the device before using the device?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the user check the operation of the device before using the device

ACT #7)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators position the product properly?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the user position the product properly

ACT #8)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators know the operation is finished?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the user know the operation is finished by the sound

ACT #9)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators know how to clean the device?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the user know how to clean the device

ACT #10)

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators know how to storage the device?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the user know how to storage the device

Usability Goals

Completion Rate

Completion rate is the percentage of test participants who successfully complete the task without critical errors. A critical error is defined as an error that results in an incorrect or incomplete outcome. In other words, the completion rate represents the percentage of participants who, when they are finished with the specified task, have an "output" that is correct. Note: If a participant requires assistance in order to achieve a correct output then the task will be scored as a critical error and the overall completion rate for the task will be affected.

Usability Goal: A total completion rate of 100 % is the goal for each usability task.

Number of Errors

The number of errors include the critical or non-critical errors occurring during the usability task according to use scenarios. A non-critical error is an error that would not have an impact on the final output of the task but would result in the task being completed less efficiently.

Usability Goal: A total errors of below 4 is the goal for each usability task.

Reporting Results

The Usability verification & evaluation report will be provided at the conclusion of the usability test. It will consist of a report and/or a presentation of the results; evaluate the usability metrics against the pre-approved goals, subjective evaluations, and specific usability problems and recommendations for resolution. The recommendations will be categorically sized by development to aid in implementation strategy.

References

EN ISO 14971:2007

Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices

EN 60601-1-6:2010 + A1:2015

Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-6: General requirements for basic safety and essential performance - Collateral standard: Usability

EN 62366:2008

Medical devices - Application of usability engineering to medical devices
