queueId: ingest-1781569954419-17hi
sourcePath: raw/sources/DHF (인허가)/04_G1717CW 외 7종/90_규격 Test report/1. 신청서 및 제출서류/08. Software Validation 문서/A-SDP-CYN_Software Development Plan (Rev.0 250520).pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/DHF (인허가)/_combined/7ff7b7abca0e/A-SDP-CYN_Software Development Plan (Rev.0 250520)__7ff7b7abca0e_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: eda4621933a1
productSignal: CYAN
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 365

SOURCE_TEXT
Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 1 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Software Development Plan
for
GT Series
Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector
Model name: GT1717C, GT1717CP
Report No.: A-SDP-CYN (Rev.0)
Dept. / Title Name Date Signature
Prepared R&D team Jinsun Song May 25, 2025
Review R&D Manager Kyungsoo Lee May 25, 2025
Approval Quality Manager Namkyu Hur May 25, 2025

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 2 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Table of contents
1. Purpose of the software development plan .................................................................................... 4
2. Work that should be performed in the development stage .......................................................... 4
3. Classification of software and its application ................................................................................ 5
3.1 Software classification comply with FDA Guide Line ........................................................... 5
3.2 Software classification in accordance with EN 62304 ............................................................ 6
4. Software Development Environment ............................................................................................. 7
4.1 Software development resources.............................................................................................. 9
5. Software Requirements Specification .......................................................................................... 10
6. Software Architectural Design ...................................................................................................... 12
7. Software Design Specification....................................................................................................... 12
8. Software Risk Management .......................................................................................................... 13
9. Software Verification & Validation .............................................................................................. 15
10. Software release ............................................................................................................................. 18
11. Software Configuration Management.......................................................................................... 19
12. Problem settlement and support in the software development activities .................................. 20

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 3 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Revision history
Rev. Revision date The reason & content for establishment and amendment
0 May 25, 2025 Initial Release

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 4 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
1. Purpose of the software development plan
To use the Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector developed, produced and sold by this company according to
intention, it aims at developing software that can manipulate and utilize the product function.
2. Work that should be performed in the development stage
(1) Determine which product will be developed, and forward the requirements to the R&D team so get it
developed according to intention.
(2) Stage of the development work (time frame)
1) First stage: Select the product to be developed.
2) Second stage: Gather material on the selected product.
3) Third stage: Based on the gathered material, select and contract with a development firm which
will realize the product development.
4) Fourth stage: Forward the requirements necessary for the product development to the selected
firm.
5) Fifth stage: Once the development firm get started the product development, this company shall
forward the development direction, changed requirements, etc to the development firm aside from
a relevant meeting and support the product development positively.
6) Sixth stage: If the development is finished, conduct testing and verification for the product
realization jointly with the development firm, and adjust, complement so make the completed
product a reality.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 5 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
3. Classification of software and its application
3.1 Software classification comply with FDA Guide Line
(1) S/W is classified and applied in accordance with the table as follows. :
“Major” Level of
Concern
The level of concern is “Major” if a failure or latent flaw could directly result in
death or serious injury to the patient or operator. The level of concern is also
“Major” if a failure or latent flaw could indirectly result in death or serious injury of
the patient or operator through incorrect or delayed information.
“Moderate” Level
of Concern
The level of concern is “Moderate” if a failure or latent design flaw could directly
result in minor injury to the patient or operator. The level of concern is also
“Moderate” if a failure or latent flaw could indirectly result in minor injury to the
patient or operator through incorrect or delayed information.
“Minor” Level of
Concern
The level of concern is “Minor” if failures or latent design flaws are unlikely to
cause any injury to the patient or operator.
(2) S/W is classified into Major, Moderate and Minor by its level of concern, which is determined
by answer to the questions listed in the table as follows:
Table 1 “Major” Level of Concern
If the answer to any one question below is Yes, the Level of Concern for the Software
Device is likely to be “Major”. Answer
1. Does the Software Device qualify as Blood Establishment Computer Software? □Y □N
2. Is the Software Device intended to be used in combination with a drug or biologic? □Y □N
3. Is the Software Device an accessory to a medical device that has a ‘Major’ Level of
Concern? □Y □N
4. Prior to mitigation of hazards, could a failure of the Software Device result in death or
serious injury, either to a patient or to a user of the device? □Y □N
a. Does the Software Device control a life supporting or life sustaining function? □Y □N
b. Does the Software Device control the delivery of potentially harmful energy that could
result in death or serious injury, such as radiation treatment systems, defibrillators, and
ablation generators?
□Y □N
c. Does the Software Device control the delivery of treatment or therapy such that an error or
malfunction could result in death or serious injury? □Y □N
d. Does the Software Device provide diagnostic information that directly drives a decision
regarding treatment or therapy, such that if misapplied it could result in serious injury or
death?
□Y □N
e. Does the Software Device provide vital signs monitoring and alarms for potentially life
threatening situations in which medical intervention is necessary? □Y □N

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 6 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Table 2 “Moderate” Level of Concern
If the Software Device is not Major Level of Concern and the answer to any one question below is
Yes, the Level of Concern is likely to be Moderate. Answer
1. Is the Software Device an accessory to a medical device that has a Moderate Level of Concern? □Y □N
2. Prior to mitigation of hazards, could a failure of the Software Device result in Minor Injury, either to
a patient or to a user of the device? □Y □N
3. Could a malfunction of, or a latent design flaw in, the Software Device lead to an erroneous
diagnosis or a delay in delivery of appropriate medical care that would likely lead to Minor Injury? □Y □N
If the answers to all of the questions in Tables 1 and 2 above are No, the Level of Concern is Minor.
3.2 Software classification in accordance with EN 62304
(1) S/W is classified and applied in accordance with as follows. :
1) This company shall assign software safety class to each software system originated by our
software system and based on the impact of the harm on the patient, the worker, or others.
The software safety classes shall initially be assigned based on concern as follows:
-. Class A: There is no injury nor health damage.
-. Class B: The possible harm is non-serious injury.
-. Class C: The possible harm is death or serious injury.
In case harm is caused by that Software system is not operate by designated, the possibility of
such defectiveness should be regarded as 100%.
(2) If the risk of death or serious injury arising from a software failure is subsequently reduced to
an acceptable level (as defined by ISO 14971) by a hardware risk control measure, either by
reducing the consequences of the failure or by reducing the probability of death or serious
injury arising from that failure, the software safety classification may be reduced from C to B.
and If the risk of non- serious injury arising from a software failure is similarly reduced to an
acceptable level by a hardware risk control measure, the software safety classification may be
reduced from B to A. Our company assigned to each software system that contributes to the
implementation of a risk control measure a software safety class based on the possible effects
of the hazard that the risk control measure is controlling.
(3) [If applicable] The company documented the software safety class assigned to each software
system in the risk management file.
(4) [If applicable] When a software system is decomposed into software items, and when a
software item is decomposed into further software items, such software items inherit the
software safety classification of the original software item (or software system) unless our
company documents a rationale for classification into a different software safety class. Such A
rationale explains how the new software items are segregated so that they may be classified
separately.
(5) [If applicable] Our company documented the software safety class of each software item if that
class is different from the class of the software item from which it was created by
decomposition.
(6) [If applicable] For compliance with standard, wherever a process is required for software items

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 7 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
of a specific classification and the process is necessarily applied to a group of software items,
our company used the processes and tasks which are required by the classification of the
highest-classified software item in the group unless our company documents in the risk
management file a rationale for using a lower classification.
(7) [If applicable] For each software system, until a software safety class is assigned, Class C
requirements applied.
4. Software Development Environment
(1) Software development process of H&abyz Co., Ltd. follows “Classic waterfall methodology", as
illustrated in the following chart.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 8 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
(2) The details of the development process and schedule of each software are presented in the table below.
Step Main Contents Development
Period
Analysis
The activity consists of establishing requirements for as much as
possible before the design phase. The requirements are documented in
the software-specific requirements and design notes.
2025.05.20~
2025.05.22
Planning
This activity constructs the software development plan. This plan
outlines the tasks, responsibilities, resource, and other items pertinent to
the specific development project.
2025.05.23~
2025.05.25
Design
The activity considers four functional attribute of the software: data
structure, software architecture, functionality, and interface
characterization. The design is documented in design documents.
2025.05.26~
2025.06.25
Implementation
The implementation phase converts the design into a machine readable
form. The software source code is created in accordance with H&abyz
Co., Ltd.‘s coding conventions.
To verify that the code created is consistent with H&abyz Co., Ltd.
standard, reviews/inspections are held.
2025.06.26~
2025.07.25
Qualification
The qualification phase verifies that the design and code implemented
meet the requirements. Testing ensures that defined input will produce
actual results that agree with required results.
2025.07.26~
2025.08.25
Maintenance
Once the software enters a released state, the only software changes
allowed are to fix identified defects in the code or to support approved
enhancements.
2025.08.26~
2025.08.31
Software
release
Software verification has been completed and the software prior to
release of the software should verify the evaluation results.
2025.09.01~
2025.09.15
Development
plan updated
UI can be updated or completely replaced to satisfy customer
requirement or revision s/w. 2025.09.15~
(3) The input requirements and verification results (outputs) required at each development step of each
software are presented in the table below.
Step Input requirements Responsible person Verification Results (Outputs)
Analysis and
Planning Investigating similar products
Jinsun, Song
Jaemin, Jeong
Kyungsoo Lee
Software Development Plan,
Software Requirements
Specification
Design
Software Development Plan,
Software Requirements
Specification
Jinsun, Song
Jaemin, Jeong
Kyungsoo Lee
Architecture Design,
Design Technique Specification
Implementation Software design
Jinsun, Song
Jaemin, Jeong
Kyungsoo Lee
Source code
Qualification Measuring instrument for
certification validation
Jinsun, Song
Jaemin, Jeong
Namkyu, Hur
Test, Software Risk Management,
Software Validation Report
Maintenance Measuring instrument for output
validation
Jinsun, Song
Jaemin, Jeong
Kyungsoo Lee
Software Configuration
Management Plan

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 9 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
4.1 Software development resources
(1) Program language
Microsoft Visual Professional 2022, C#
(2) Memory management
Programming Language dependent
(3) Software size
1) Distribution size
SDK: About 3~4Mbytes
F/W: About 23~33Mbytes
2) Execute File Size
Execute SDK file name: libxd2.dll
Size: SDK about 4Mbytes
Execute F/W file name: upimage_G2_DET_xxxx.bin
Size: F/W about 32Mbytes
(4) Human Resources
Team Person Responsibilities (produced or processed documents)
SW Team SW Engineer
(2 person)
SRS (design)
Software architecture (design) Implementation, coding
SDS (design)
User Manual (design) Hazards analysis (design)
Software static test report (perform) Software dynamic test report
(verification)
Team Manager
(1 person)
SRS (approval)
Software architecture (design, approval) SDS (approval)
Hazards analysis (verification) User Manual (verification) Software
test plan (verification) Software test report (verification) Traceability
analysis (design) Validation report (design)
Test Engineers
(2 person)
Software test report
Application
Software Team
SW Engineers
(2 person) User Manual (verification)
Proprietary application Design and implementation. Casual Software
test
Team Manager
(1 person)
SDS (verification)
User Manual (verification)
Quality
Management
Team
Team Manager
(1 person)
SRS (approval) SDS (approval)
Hazards analysis (approval) User Manual (approval) Hazards Analysis
(approval) Software test report (approval) Traceability analysis
(approval) Validation report (approval)
Marketing
Team
Team Manager
(1 person) SRS (verification)
Hazards analysis (verification)
Customer
Support Team
Team Manager
(1 person)
SDS (verification)
User Manual (verification) Hazards analysis (verification) Validation
report (verification)

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 10 / 20

Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
5. Software Requirements Specification
(1) Functional Requirement
Function by each module and essential factor that each function must equip in software are as below:
1) Software function
① Common functions Module
It operates the detector operation mode as manual mode.
It operates the detector operation mode as line trigger mode.
It operates the detector operation mode as AED mode.
It gets the current acquisition mode.
It sets the current acquisition mode.
Connect to detector.
Disconnect to detector.
It creates a handle to connect with the detector.
It disposes a handle of the created detector handle.
It supports a reading function of image acquisition screen area.
It checks the status of the detector device.
It gets the current set time of the detector.
It sets the time of the detector.
It gets the static information of the detector.
It gets the data count in the detector’s internal storage.
It gets the data list in the detector’s internal storage.
It gets the firmware version number of the detector.
② Image acquisition Module
It provides a starting function for acquisition. It acquires dark, or bright images depending on
the parameters.
It removes the event handle and used memory after completing image acquisition.
③ Calibration Module
It creates a handle to create a Calibration.
It brings an algorithm function to create offset correction.
It brings an algorithm function to create gain correction.
It brings an algorithm function to create bad pixel correction.
It creates a defect map file for the bad-pixel correction.
It creates a calibration set data file for the gain correction.
It removes the handle and memory used to create a Calibration.
④ Firmware Update Module
It should support the administrator feature to import, read and write the firmware file.
It should support the function to read and deliver the firmware file information that is saved
from the detector.
It should support the writing function on the firmware file of the detector device.
It should support the function to gain the structure and information of the loaded firmware
file.
It should support the function to update the loaded firmware file to the detector.
It should support the validation function on the detector device after updating the firmware.
2) Firmware function
① iMX8 Module
It should support the function to write FPGA register values used for Acquisition.
It should support the function to write the FPGA register to request starting the acquisition.
It should support the function to continuously read the FPGA state register.
It should support the function to send the ‘Exposure’ state if the FPGA state register enters
the ‘Window open’ state.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 11 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
It should support the function to wait for the image data to arrive from the FPGA through the
CSI data transfer module.
It should support the function to transfer image data to the host PC.
It should support the function to save the image data to storage if the data transfer fails.
3) Error control
① Connect Error
₋ It should support recovery mode to enable reconnection in case of disconnection between the
detector and SDK software.
② Image Processing Error
₋ When noise or line is appeared during the pre-processing the image received from the
detector, it should provide a calibration image for normal process.
(2) Verification activities
1) Prior to development of the software, concrete items thereof should be planned/devised, and based
on this the software development should be done.
2) The software requirements should analyze the risk to examine the safety and reliability and
subsequently manage toward the software developed as an input material for the software
development so evaluate whether it is legitimate to use.
Category Description Reference Result responsible
person
Software
development
Devise a plan for the software
development and put it in writing EN ISO13485:2016 Software development
plan
R&D
manager
Software risk
analysis
Identification of the characteristics
and hazards associated with the
intended use and the safety of the
device, risk assessment
EN ISO14971:2019 Software Validation
Report
Quality
manager

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 12 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
6. Software Architectural Design
The software architectural design is a structure that explains the software requirements by the software
structure and identifies the software item. The software architectural design includes a similar description etc
on the relation between the primary functions of the software inclusive of the relation with the data flow
such as a typical flow chart, hardware and networking. That does not need to include every function call of
this document and module in general. However, there should be sufficient information to allow review by an
organization on the functionality and intended use of the software equipment.
7. Software Design Specification
The software design specification explains materialization of the requirements on the software device. In the
aspect of the relation between the Software Requirements Specification (SRS) and the Software Design
Specification (SDS), SRS explains how the software device will be worked while SDS explains how the
requirements will be materialized to SRS. The information presented to SDS should be enough to confirm
the job conducted by a software engineer who made the software device is clear and not vague along with a
temporary design decision at least. SDS can include a reference on the other document like the Software
Detailed Design.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 13 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
8. Software Risk Management
(1) As for the software risk management, personnel who participated in the program development process
shall decide, analyze potential risk, reason, probability and severity of the software.
(2) As to the analyzed risk, make out a risk evaluation and present, verify the risk control method thereof.
(3) Software risk management
1) Risk evaluation matrix
Severity
Probability
Not Entirely Ha
rmful (1)
Slight
(2)
Severe
(3)
Very Severe
(4)
Paralysis State
(5)
Frequent
(5) 5 10 15 20 25
Probable
(4) 4 8 12 16 20
Occasional
(3) 3 6 9 12 15
Remote
(2) 2 4 6 8 10
Improbable
(1) 1 2 3 4 5
2) Explanation of the risk evaluation zone
① Acceptable zone (Green Zone)
As severity and probability on hazard is quite low, the risk is a level which is acceptable and
negligible when compared with the risk of another hazard. But risk control measures for the risk
reduction are needed as far as possible.
② Non-acceptable zone (Red Zone)
If the risk still remains on the non-acceptable zone even after taking measures to reduce or
remove the risk, stop the design work.
3) Risk estimation level
① Severity
Step Severity Definition
5 Paralysis State Potential failure mode affects safe system operation
4 Very Severe System inoperable with equipment damage
3 Severe System inoperable without damage
2 Slight System operable with some degradation of performance
1 Not Entirely Harmful None

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 14 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
② Probability
Step Probability Definition
5 Frequent
Daily, 1 / 1 day (usually)
Likely to occur often in the life of an item, with a likelihood of
occurrence greater than 10^-2 in any one mission
4 Probable
Weekly, 1 / 1 week (often)
Will occur several times in the life of an item, with a likelihood of
occurrence less than 10^-2 but greater than 10^-3 in any one mission
3 Occasional
Monthly, 1 / 1 month (sometimes)
Likely to occur sometime in the life of an item, with likelihood of
occurrence less than 10^-3 but greater than 10^-5 in any one mission
2 Remote
Quarterly, 1 / 1 quarter (a few times while its life cycle)
Unlikely but possible to occur in the life of an item, with a likelihood
of occurrence less than 10^-5 but greater than 10^-6 in any one
mission
1 Improbable
Annually, 1 / 1 (might occur but hardly does)
So unlikely, it can be assumed occurrence may not be experienced,
with a likelihood of occurrence less than 10^-6 in any one mission.
※ If the HAZARD could arise from a failure of the SOFTWARE SYSTEM to behave as specified, the
probability of such failure shall be assumed to be 100 percent [∵EN 62304:2006/AC:2008, Cl. 4.3
a)].

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 15 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
9. Software Verification & Validation
(1) Work of verification and Validation
1) Definition
Verification means “confirmation that specific requirements are met by presentation of objective
evidence and inspection”. The software verification in the software development environment is
confirmation that the output in the specific stage of development meets every input requisite of the said
stage. The software test is one of the several verification activities to confirm that the output in the
software development stage meets the input requisite. The software validation is to prove with objective
evidence that both the user requirements and use purpose on the function whose software has been used
are consistent with the software.
Software verification and validation shall be confirmed through the software test. The software test shall
conduct the unit test, integration and system test.
Type Item Yardstick Criteria Alternative
Common
functions Module
Common application
function setting function
Initial settings and
default values apply
Every error found should be
removed
Debugging
Image acquisition
Module
Image acquisition event
setup and job notification
message handling
Set the collection handle
and save the file Debugging
Calibration
Module
Image correction image
acquisition function
Average image
acquisition for deviation
correction
Additional
coding work
Pre-Processing
Module
Image correction
processing algorithm
function
Bright image, defect
removal Debugging
Firmware update
Module
Firmware update and
version control function
Firmware read/write and
firmware check Debugging
iMX8 Module
Detector peripheral
settings and system
control functions
System control and
settings Debugging
Error Control
Communication
connection and image
processing error
handling function
Communication error
control and video error
control
Debugging
① Common functions module
Implements and initializes functions of commonly used functions.
② Image acquisition module
Implement and handle functions for image acquisition event setting and motion notification.
③ Calibration module
Implements image acquisition and generation functions handled by image correction.
④ Pre-processing module
Implement an image processing correction algorithm and remove noise from the acquired image.
⑤ Firmware update module
It implements firmware file update and version management functions, and implements
read/write functions.
⑥ iMX8 module
It should support the function to write FPGA register values used for Acquisition.
⑦ Error control
Controls communication connection error and image processing-related error events.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 16 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
(2) Time frame and resources for the work activities of Software Verification & Validation
1) Time frame
Primary stage Date of the test case
preparation Date of beginning Date of completion
Common functions
module
After reviewing and writing
initialization requirements
Upon completion of common
function implementation 3 days after the test
Image acquisition
module
After designing the image
acquisition structure and writing
specifications
Upon completion of the
acquisition module
implementation
2 days after the start of
the exam
Calibration module After writing the calibration
processing specification
Upon completion of each
module implementation
2 days after the start of
the exam
Pre-processing
module
After writing the pre-processing
correction module specification
When the implementation of
the pre-processing module is
completed
2 days after the start of
the exam
Firmware update
module
After writing the file system and
update specification
When the update module
implementation is complete
3 days after the start of
the exam
iMX8 module After creating a peripheral
control specification
Upon completion of device
control module
implementation
2 days after the start of
the exam
Error control After writing the error handling
control specification
Upon completion of the
control module
implementation
3 days after the start of
the exam
2) Resource
Item Detail item Resource
MCU
CPU Intel Cyclone V
FLASH Program Memory 8G byte
DATA Memory 2G byte
NIC 10/100/1000 network system
OS Embedded Linux 32bit
※ Traceability analysis
As the traceability analysis is an essential element on comprehension of the effective product
development, product design, development, testing and risk alleviation, do clear traceability
analysis between the related document and development activities.
Software
Requirements
Specification(SRS)
Software Design
Specification(SDS) Hazard Mitigations Software Verification
& Validation(SVV)

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 17 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 18 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
10. Software release
(1) Confirmation of the integrity of software verification
It should be ensured that the software verification is completed and that the results are
evaluated before releasing the software.
(2) Documentation of identified residual abnormal conditions
All identified residual abnormalities should be documented.
(3) Assessment of identified residual abnormal conditions
In order to ensure that all identified residual abnormalities are not causing unacceptable risks,
It should be ensured that such abnormal conditions have been evaluated.
(4) Documentation of the releasing version
The version of the software product being deployed should be documented.
(5) Document how you created the distributed software
The procedures and environment used to create the deployed software should be documented.
(6) Confirmation of activity and work completion
Ensure that all activities and tasks are completed with all relevant documentation.
(7) Software storage
Either a period of time determined by the manufacturer's defined minimum life time of the
equipment or the time specified by the relevant regulatory requirements, the following shall
be stored for longer period:
1) Software products and configuration items
2) Document
(8) Ensure repetition accuracy of software release
Procedures to ensure that the deployed software product is reliably delivered to the point of
use without modification or unauthorized modification should be established. This procedure
should address the production and handling of media containing software products, including:
1) Replication
2) Media labeling
3) Packing
4) Protection
5) Storage
6) Delivery

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 19 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
11. Software Configuration Management
(1) Purpose of the configuration management plan
Software should include a function that can materialize the optimum performance on the
product developed by this company. To this end, continual upgrade from the previously
launched version should be available.
(2) How to manage configuration

1) The development request firm shall conduct monitoring continually the customer
requirements, item for performance improvement and other problematic issue, etc on the
software-applied product so settle through the software upgrade based on the immediate
foregoing.
2) In case the software upgrade has settled the performance improvement, application of the
customer request and bug matter, etc, it should be able to distinguish by a version name and
write as the following type.
Version. X.Y.Z
Category Description
1 Major X When a new product is designed and developed for the product
number and its function
2 Minor Y
- When functions and new functions are added.
- If the library is changed,
- When the compiler is changed
3 Patch Z In case of being changed to a bug patch.
3) In case the software configuration is changed, it should be recorded, managed on 12.
Software Configuration Management of the Software Validation Report.
(3) In case the software configuration is changed, it should be validated before it is applied to
the software.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-SDP-CYN
Rev. No. 0
Software Development Plan Rev. Date May 25, 2025
Page 20 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
12. Problem settlement and support in the software development activities
(1) Software's problem-solving procedure
(2) The customer dissatisfaction item should be received pursuant to Customer complaints
Procedure and if a software change is needed, it should quickly be notified to R&D team.
(3) To settle the software's problem, a top priority should be given to improving the problem
under mutual cooperation between Production team and R&D team and it should promptly
be applied to the product.
(4) Any issues identified with the software shall be recorded and applicable corrective measures
shall be conducted.
(5) In addition, when correcting the issues of software, the company shall examine the issues,
notify them to relevant personnel, and analyze any trend of issues. The software shall be
used only after the required validation has completed.
(6) As for the software's preservation, R&D team should keep the same version against the
original, and whenever the version changes the two firms should put it in a separate backup
file (CD, hard disk) so keep in the system.
