queueId: ingest-1781569954407-vzg
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260213 태국 MD Healthcard Co., Ltd/251209 보완서류/2.2 [Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector] Technical Document/A-CSDT-23G attachment (Rev.5)/9. Validation and verification/9.6 clinical/9.6.3 literatures/Literature #4.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/b87d88f99964/Literature #4__b87d88f99964_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 5bad878f6e26
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 395

SOURCE_TEXT
Ulrike Rapp-Bernhardt, MD
Thomas M. Bernhardt, MD
Horst Lenzen, MS
Rainer Esseling, MS
Friedrich W. Roehl, PhD
Manfred Schiborr, MD
Iris Theobald-Hormann, MD
Walter Heindel, MD
Published online before print
10.1148/radiol.2372040672
Radiology 2005; 237:485– 491
Abbreviations:
Az  area under the ROC curve
GadOX-aSi  gadolinium oxisulphide
phosphor
ROC  receiver operating
characteristic
1 From the Department of Clinical Ra-
diology (U.R.B., T.M.B., H.L., R.E., M.S.,
I.T.H., W.H.), Section of Pediatric Radi-
ology (U.R.B., M.S., I.T.H.), University
of Muenster, Albert-Schweitzer-Str 33,
48129 Muenster, Germany; and De-
partment of Biometrics and Medical In-
formatics, Otto-von-Guericke Univer-
sity, Magdeburg, Germany (F.W.R.).
From the 2003 RSNA Annual Meeting.
Received April 12, 2004; revision re-
quested June 22; final revision received
November 14; accepted December 21.
Address correspondence to T.M.B. (e-
mail: bernhart@uni-muenster.de).
Authors stated no financial relationship
to disclose.
Author contributions:
Guarantors of integrity of entire study,
U.R.B., T.M.B., W.H.; study concepts,
T.M.B.; study design, U.R.B., T.M.B.;
literature research, U.R.B., T.M.B.; ex-
perimental studies, T.M.B., U.R.B.,
H.L., R.E., M.S.; data acquisition, U.R.B.,
T.M.B., H.L., R.E., M.S., I.T.H.; data
analysis/interpretation, U.R.B., T.M.B.,
F.W.R.; statistical analysis, F.W.R.;
manuscript preparation, U.R.B., T.M.B.;
manuscript definition of intellectual
content, U.R.B., T.M.B., W.H.; man-
uscript editing, U.R.B., T.M.B., R.E.;
manuscript revision/review, U.R.B.,
T.M.B., W.H.; manuscript final ver-
sion approval, U.R.B., T.M.B.
© RSNA, 2005
Experimental Evaluation of a
Portable Indirect Flat-Panel
Detector for the Pediatric
Chest: Comparison with
Storage Phosphor
Radiography at Different
Exposures by Using a Chest
Phantom 1
PURPOSE: To compare the exposure dose requirements and performance of a
portable indirect flat-panel detector for pediatric use in the depiction of catheters,
simulated pulmonary nodules, and simulated interstitial lung disease with those of
storage phosphor radiography.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Catheters and simulated nodules and subtle inter-
stitial lung disease (miliary, reticular, linear, and ground-glass patterns) were super-
imposed over an anthropomorphic chest phantom. Images were obtained with
different exposures corresponding to simulated speeds of 400 and 800 with a
portable flat-panel detector and printed on hard copies. These images were com-
pared with those from storage phosphor radiography at a simulated speed of 400,
which is typically used in pediatric radiology. Four independent readers recorded
7200 observations per pattern (for a total of 600 statistically independent observations),
and these observations were subjected to receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis.
Differences were considered significant at a P value of .05.
RESULTS: Catheters over obscured chest areas, nodules 10 mm or smaller and
larger than 10 mm over lucent lung, nodules 10 mm or smaller over obscured chest
areas, and miliary and linear patterns over lucent lung showed higher areas under
the ROC curve (A z) with the flat-panel detector at 400 and 800 digital speed
compared with storage phosphor radiography. Az values for reticular and ground-
glass patterns with the flat-panel detector were equal to or less than those with
storage phosphor radiography. These differences, however, were not statistically
significant.
CONCLUSION: In the detection of catheters, nodules, and almost all interstitial lung
disease, Az values were higher with the portable flat-panel detector than with
storage phosphor radiography at equivalent and reduced speeds. These results
suggest that the portable flat-panel detector could be used with reduced exposure
dose in pediatric patients.
© RSNA, 2005
Flat-panel x-ray detectors promise important advantages compared with storage phosphor
and film-based radiography (1,2). The improved detective quantum efficiency of flat-panel
detectors can be used to either reduce patient dose while maintaining image quality and
signal-to-noise ratio or increase signal-to-noise ratio while maintaining patient dose.
485
Radiology

Patients needing frequent examination
(ie, those receiving intensive care) would
particularly benefit from dose reduction
(3). Results of experimental studies (4,5)
have shown that flat-panel detectors
have the potential for dose reduction
while maintaining diagnostic accuracy.
The spatial resolution of flat-panel detec-
tors, however, is limited by pixel size,
and therefore, is lower than that of con-
ventional film-based systems (6). More-
over, fixed detectors do not offer ade-
quate freedom of movement and are not
suitable for applications in an intensive
care unit (7). The recently developed por-
table gadolinium oxisulphide phosphor
(GadOX-aSi) flat-panel detector offers a
pixel size of 100 m without compromis-
ing detective quantum efficiency. This
flat-panel detector may be useful for spe-
cific imaging applications in the detec-
tion of lesions that require high spatial
resolution. The portable detector may
improve workflow in a pediatric inten-
sive care unit, and it can be directly con-
nected to digital picture archiving sys-
tems.
The purpose of our experimental study
was to compare the exposure dose re-
quirements and detection of catheters,
simulated pulmonary nodules, and sim-
ulated interstitial lung disease with a por-
table indirect flat-panel detector for pedi-
atric use with those of storage phosphor
radiography.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Study Design
Fifty different templates, each divided
into 12 areas (six pulmonary [lucent
lung], three mediastinal, and three sub-
diaphragmatic [obscured chest regions]
areas), with catheters, simulated nodules,
and simulated patterns of interstitial
lung disease (ground-glass, linear, mili-
ary, and reticular patterns) were prepared
separately. These templates were super-
imposed over an anthropomorphic chest
phantom (Humanoid Systems, Carson,
Calif). Six hundred areas (50 templates 
12 areas) were evaluated. An uncovered
area was assigned to each covered area
before evaluation to provide the same ra-
tio of covered to uncovered areas to per-
form receiver operating characteristic
(ROC) analysis.
Imaging Systems
The indirect GadOX-aSi flat-panel de-
tector (CXDI-31; Canon Europe, Am-
stelveen, the Netherlands) is a portable
unit with a detector size of 32.5  32.5
cm, an image size of 22.5  27.5 cm (9 
11 inches), a thickness of 20 mm, and a
weight of 2.8 kg. The detector works
without an antiscatter grid and provides
a pixel size of 100 m (10 pixels per mil-
limeter, 5 line pairs per millimeter) and a
fill-factor of 52%.
The storage phosphor system (ADC
Compact Plus; Agfa, Leverkusen, Ger-
many) was used with imaging plates (MD
40; Agfa) with a size of 35  43 cm. The
detector provides a matrix size of 2320 
2826 pixels (6 pixels per millimeter, 3
line pairs per millimeter).
Storage phosphor radiography is used
as a daily routine digital detector in our
intensive care unit. Thus, it was chosen
for comparison with the portable flat-
panel detector.
Image Acquisition
Posteroanterior chest radiographs were
obtained with the phantom in a supine
position by using a 115-cm focus-detec-
tor distance and 2.5-mm aluminum 
0.1 mm copper filtration. Corresponding
to clinical routine in pediatric chest radi-
ography, images from both digital detec-
tors were obtained at 70 kVp (1 mAs,
corresponding to 400 digital speed) by
using a portable x-ray generator (Mobi-
lett; Siemens, Erlangen, Germany). Two
images (upper and lower half of the
phantom) of each template had to be
acquired for the flat-panel detector owing
to the smaller detector size. The images of
the flat-panel detector templates were ex-
posed at 400 and 800 digital speed (0.5
mAs), and images with the storage phos-
phor radiography system were obtained
at 400 digital speed. The surface and exit
doses were measured by using an ioniza-
tion chamber (DALI type 77217 dosime-
ter and 77334 ionization chamber; PTW,
Freiburg, Germany). The surface dose was
50.4 Gy at 400 digital speed and 25.2
Gy at 800 digital speed. The exit dose
was 1.4 Gy at 400 digital speed and 0.7
Gy at 800 digital speed.
A few seconds after the procedure was
performed, the image appeared on the
17-inch monitor of the flat-panel detec-
tor unit. The hard-copy images (35  43
cm) from both detectors were printed on
a laser imager (Matrix LR 5200; Agfa).
The images from storage phosphor radi-
ography were cut into two halves that
matched exactly the film size of the flat-
panel detector to avoid differentiation
between the digital detectors.
Image Processing
Automatic image processing according
to the manufacturer’s default image pro-
cessing protocol (eg, collimation border
detection, sensitometry mapping, win-
dow and level setting) of the incoming
raw data was used with storage phosphor
radiography multiscale image contrast
amplification (MUSICA; Agfa) and the
flat-panel detector (CXDI-31; Canon Eu-
rope). The optical density of the dis-
played images was adjusted so that the
average integer value of the region of in-
terest was 1.9. No additional image post-
processing functions were used to reduce
the amount of data and the analytic ef-
fort.
Patterns Evaluated
The venous catheters (Cavafix Certo
255; B Braun Melsungen, Melsungen,
Germany) had a length of 30 –50 mm and
an 18-gauge lumen. Nodules were simu-
lated with balls of beeswax 5–15 mm in
diameter. Half of the nodules had diam-
eters of 10 mm or less. Miliary lung dis-
ease was simulated with clusters of bird
seed (approximate grain size, 2 mm). Re-
ticular interstitial lung disease was simu-
lated with gauze soaked in contrast ma-
terial (Solutrast 300; Altana, Konstanz,
Germany). A linear pattern was simu-
lated with silk thread soaked in contrast
material (Solutrast 300). A ground-glass
pattern was simulated with aluminum
pads (AKU; Vileda, Weinheim, Germany).
Data Acquisition and Analysis
Three hundred radiographs (50 tem-
plates  three subsets [50 templates with
the flat-panel detector at 400 digital
speed, 50 with the flat-panel detector at
800 digital speed, 50 with storage phos-
phor radiography at 400 digital speed] 
2 [upper and lower half of the phan-
tom]) were prepared in random order at
different settings. A total of 600 statisti-
cally independent observations (50 tem-
plates  12 areas) were analyzed. Four
board-certified radiologists (U.R.B., T.M.B.,
M.S., I.T.H.) who were fellows in pediat-
ric radiology and had 8 –12 years experi-
ence in pediatric chest radiology partici-
pated in the study. Readers were blinded
to exposure settings and detectors. For
each area of the 50 different templates
and for each pattern, the readers were
asked to state the presence or absence of
a simulated pattern and to rank their
level of confidence by using a five-point
scale, as follows: 1  definitely present,
2  probably present, 3  uncertain, 4 
486  Radiology  November 2005 Rapp-Bernhardt et al
Radiology

probably not present, and 5  definitely
not present.
All images were evaluated on a standard
light box without other illumination.
Lighting conditions were kept constant.
There was no limit for the reading time.
Data and Statistical Analysis
A total of 600 independent observa-
tions (50 templates  12 areas) were per-
formed with one of three imaging sys-
tems (400 digital speed for storage phos-
phor radiography and the flat-panel
detector and 800 digital speed for the
flat-panel detector) and evaluated by four
readers. Observations were evaluated by
using receiver operating characteristic
(ROC) analysis (8). The detection perfor-
mance with the systems was estimated
with the area under the ROC curve (A z).
Because the crucial patterns for daily rou-
tine work in an intensive care unit (cath-
eters over obscured chest regions; nod-
ules over lucent lung and obscured chest
regions; miliary, linear, reticular, and
ground-glass patterns over lucent lung)
were assessed separately, there are 7200
observations per pattern. A statistical
program (LABMRMC 1.0B, beta version
3; University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill)
was used to calculate the Az values. The
ROC curves were created with a maxi-
mum likelihood curve-fitting algorithm.
The mean Az values were calculated for
each pattern and digital speed (flat-panel
detector at 400 and 800 digital speed and
storage phosphor radiography at 400 dig-
ital speed) and for the four readers with
their standard deviations. This statistical
program can be used to calculate the sig-
nificance of the differences between the
mean A z values by using a three-way fac-
torial analysis of variance method with
the factors case, treatment, reader, and
two-factorial interactions. First, the sta-
tistical software was used across the three
systems (storage phosphor radiography
at 400 digital speed and flat-panel detec-
tor at 400 and 800 digital speed) and four
readers. Second, it was used across the
two systems (storage phosphor radiogra-
phy and flat-panel detector at each digi-
tal speed). Multiple tests were not avail-
able for this program. To obtain the con-
fidence intervals of the Az values and the
pairwise comparisons of the two modal-
ities, one must perform analyses for each
digital speed and detector. The 95% con-
fidence intervals of the mean Az were cal-
culated. In addition, the general linear
model procedure of the SAS system (SAS
system 8.02; SAS Institute, Cary, NC) as a
two-factorial analysis was used on the ba-
sis of the original data (five-point scale)
for a pairwise interaction of readers. Dif-
ferences were considered statistically sig-
nificant at a P value of less than .05.
RESULTS
Figure 1 shows the Az values for the two
different imaging detectors and exposure
levels. A z values for the flat-panel detec-
tor at 400 digital speed were higher than
those with storage phosphor radiography
for all patterns except the reticular pat-
tern. Az values for the flat-panel detector
at 800 digital speed were equivalent to or
higher than those with storage phosphor
radiography for all patterns except the
reticular pattern and nodules over ob-
scured chest regions. The differences be-
tween the “treatments” (ie, detectors),
however, were not statistically signifi-
cant.
Catheter
In the detection of catheters over ob-
scured chest regions, Az values for the
flat-panel detector at 400 digital speed
(Az  0.96) were higher than those for
storage phosphor radiography (Az 
0.69). The A z value for the flat-panel
detector at 800 digital speed (A z  0.69)
was equal to that of storage phosphor
radiography (A z  0.69). These differ-
ences were not statistically significant
(P  .06) (Fig 2).
Nodules
The Az values for nodules larger than
10 mm over lucent lung were higher with
the flat-panel detector at 400 digital
speed (Az  0.66) than with storage phos-
phor radiography (Az  0.55) and the
flat-panel detector at 800 digital speed
(Az  0.55) (P  .61).
The detection of nodules 10 mm or less
in diameter over lucent lung was better
with the flat-panel detector at 400 and
800 digital speed (Az  0.77 and 0.63,
respectively) than with storage phosphor
radiography (A z  0.55). The differences
were not significant (P  .26 and .49,
respectively).
In the detection of nodules 10 mm in
diameter or smaller over obscured chest
regions, images obtained with the flat-
panel detector showed higher Az values
at 400 digital speed (Az  0.82) than did
those obtained with storage phosphor ra-
diography (Az  0.69) and the flat-panel
detector at 800 digital speed (A z  0.61)
(Fig 3). These differences were not signif-
icant (P  .65).
Figure 1. Chart shows the Az mean values (and standard deviations)
for the two different imaging detectors and exposure levels for all
simulated interstitial lung patterns (ground-glass, miliary, linear, and
reticular patterns over lucent lung), catheters over obscured chest
regions, and nodules (10 mm and 10 mm) over obscured chest
regions and lucent lung. The detection performance with the portable
indirect flat-panel detector at 800 digital speed (white bars) was at
least as good as that with storage phosphor radiography (gray bars).
These differences were not statistically significant. Black bars  flat-
panel detector at 400 digital speed.
Volume 237  Number 2 Portable Indirect Flat-Panel Detector  487
Radiology

Miliary Pattern
In the detection of a miliary pattern, Az
values with the flat-panel detector at 400
and 800 digital speed (Az  0.91 and
0.79, respectively) were higher than
those with storage phosphor radiography
(Az  0.77). These differences were not
statistically significant (P  .44).
Reticular Pattern
In the detection of a reticular pattern,
the A z value with the flat-panel detector
at 800 digital speed (A z  0.59) was less
than that at 400 digital speed (A z 
0.74) and storage phosphor radiogra-
phy (A z  0.82). There were no statisti-
cally significant differences when the
images obtained with the flat-panel
Figure 2. (a, b) Images obtained with the flat-panel detector at (a) 400 and (b) 800 digital speed show catheters (arrows). (c) Storage phosphor
radiograph shows a catheter (arrows) over obscured chest regions. Differences were not statistically significant.
Figure 3. Digital images of a simulated nodule (arrows) obtained with the flat-panel detector at (a) 400 and (b) 800 digital speed. (c) Storage
phosphor radiograph obtained at 400 digital speed. There were no significant differences in the detection of nodules 10 mm in diameter or smaller.
488  Radiology  November 2005 Rapp-Bernhardt et al
Radiology

detector were compared with those
from storage phosphor radiography (P 
.40).
Linear Pattern
In the detection of a linear pattern over
lucent lung, higher A z values were ob-
tained with the flat-panel detector at 400

(Az  0.68) and 800 (Az  0.75) digital
speed than with storage phosphor radi-
ography (Az  0.63). There were no sta-
tistically significant differences between
the different speeds and digital detectors
(P  .57) (Fig 4).
Ground-Glass Pattern
The A z values in the detection of a
ground-glass pattern with the flat-panel
detector at 400 (Az  0.92) and 800 (A z 
0.93) digital speed were equal to or less
than those with storage phosphor radiog-
raphy (Az  0.94). These differences were
not significant (P  .15).
There were no significant differences
between the four readers. One reader had
smaller Az values than the other readers
with both digital systems (storage phos-
phor radiography at 400 digital speed,
flat-panel detector at 400 and 800 digital
speed) for almost all simulated patterns
except for all nodules over lucent lung
and obscured chest regions.
DISCUSSION
Physical parameters used to characterize
digital detectors are the detective quan-
tum efficiency, modulation transfer func-
tion, image matrix, pixel size, and dy-
namic range of the detector (9). The accep-
tance of an imaging system is dependent
on how these physical parameters are
converted into detection performance
with that system. Although physical
measurements (eg, detective quantum ef-
ficiency, modulation transfer function)
are objective indicators of the overall sys-
tem performance with an indirect porta-
ble flat-panel detector, experimental or
clinical studies are necessary to help pre-
dict the performance of imaging systems
in the detection of subtle interstitial lung
disease, nodules, and catheters. In an ex-
perimental study (10), the detection of
undisplaced rib fractures was evaluated
with a large-area flat-panel detector with
a pixel size of 143  143 m and a
Nyquist frequency of 3.5 line pairs per
millimeter. This flat-panel detector was
superior to storage phosphor radiogra-
phy and film-based radiography in the
detection of subtle rib fractures (10). As a
limitation of that study, no superim-
posed lung structures were simulated.
The model was much more homoge-
neous than the absorption of different
areas of the chest wall and, therefore, the
dynamic range in terms of absorption
difference was smaller. However, these
conditions were identical for the differ-
ent digital detectors and could have re-
sulted only in higher Az values for each
imaging detector on the basis of easier
detectability of the rib fractures without
superimposed lung structures.
The detection of subtle interstitial lung
disease was evaluated by using a large-
area direct flat-panel detector with a pixel
pitch of 143 m and showed improved
results, even under conditions of dose
reduction, when compared with asym-
metric screen-film radiography (8). How-
ever, experimental studies differ largely
in absorption and scatter radiation be-
cause different phantom thicknesses and
exposure conditions are used. The results
of previous studies with phantoms simu-
lating radiography of the adult chest are
not transferable to pediatric radiography;
pediatric patients constitute an impor-
tant patient group for exposure dose re-
duction with flat-panel detectors (11).
A further reduction of pixel pitch im-
proves spatial resolution and may be
useful in the detection of subtle pulmo-
nary patterns, catheters, and nodules in
pediatric chest radiography. The pixel
pitch of the recently developed porta-
ble GadOX-aSi flat-panel detector (100
m) results in a Nyquist frequency of 5
line pairs per millimeter. The GadOX-aSi
Figure 4. Images of a simulated linear pattern (arrows) obtained with the flat-panel detector at (a) 400 and (b) 800 digital speed. (c) Storage
phosphor radiograph obtained at 400 digital speed. Visibility was not significantly better with the flat-panel detector than with storage phosphor
radiography.
Volume 237  Number 2 Portable Indirect Flat-Panel Detector  489
Radiology

flat-panel detector has been designed
such that the expected signal-to-noise ra-
tio per unit area is higher than that of
the CXDI-22 detector (Canon Europe),
which has previously been shown to pro-
duce images of a quality equivalent to or
better than those with film-based radiog-
raphy (12,13) and computed radiography
(14). In an experimental study with hand
phantom images (7), the new GadOX-aSi
flat-panel detector was shown to have
sufficient high spatial resolution to re-
produce fine structures. In our study, we
used an anthropomorphic chest phan-
tom to detect subtle simulated lung dis-
ease, catheters, and nodules. This slim
phantom offered the advantage of differ-
ent absorption ranges with superimposed
lung and mediastinum, and it is an ade-
quate phantom for obtaining chest im-
ages that simulate those at pediatric radi-
ography. The results of our study showed
that, under conditions simulating those
at pediatric chest radiography, the A z val-
ues for low-contrast objects were higher
with the GadOX-aSi flat-panel detector
than with storage phosphor radiography.
Although our results are not statistically
significant, the depiction of almost all
simulated subtle interstitial lung patterns
over lucent lung, as well as catheters over
obscured chest regions and nodules over
peripheral and obscured chest regions
with the GadOX-aSi flat-panel detector
was increased, even when images ob-
tained with dose reduction were com-
pared with those obtained with storage
phosphor radiography. Samei et al (3)
examined the detection performance
with a flat-panel detector (Paxscan
2520, Varian Medical Systems, Salt Lake
City, Utah; thallium-doped cesium io-
dide phosphor screen with a 0.127-mm
pixel pitch) in a clinical study of neo-
nates in an intensive care unit. Each pa-
tient, after routine imaging examination
with computed radiography, underwent
repeat imaging with the flat-panel detec-
tor at one-fourth of the exposure level
and a pixel pitch of 127 m. According to
the results of our study, no statistically
significant differences were found be-
tween the flat-panel detector and com-
puted radiography, and it was found that
the flat-panel detector was easy to use by
positioning the detector underneath the
neonate inside the incubator (3). In con-
trast to our study, for computed radiog-
raphy, the level of exposure was based on
a 200 digital speed specification of the
detector, and images were read by using a
dual-monitor 2k diagnostic workstation.
The observers were allowed to adjust the
window and level settings of the images.
In that study, 30 image pairs were evalu-
ated for conspicuity and localization of
the endings of ancillary catheters and
tubes; in our study, catheters, nodules,
and all patterns of lung diseases were ex-
amined.
The detection of the simulated struc-
tures in our experimental study was ade-
quate, as shown by the range of Az val-
ues. The exceptions were Az values close
to 1.00 for the ground-glass pattern,
which indicates that this pattern was too
easily detected with both digital modali-
ties. A z values close to 0.5 obtained for
nodules over lucent lung indicated that
this pattern was too difficult to detect.
The small Az values for nodules over lu-
cent lung, however, were obtained only
for storage phosphor radiography and
the flat-panel detector at 800 digital
speed. The Az value for the flat-panel de-
tector at 400 digital speed was 0.66. Thus,
we did not eliminate this pattern for the
evaluation of different detectors because
this Az value was within the limit men-
tioned earlier.
It should be emphasized that both
digital detectors were used in clinical
conditions with routine image process-
ing according to the manufacturer’s
default image processing protocol for
chest radiographs in pediatric radiogra-
phy. Thus, further improvement of our
results because of image processing for
the GadOX-aSi flat-panel detector or
storage phosphor radiography was not
evaluated.
We avoided a potential source of bias
(ie, different film sizes for the digital de-
tectors) in our experiment. The sizes were
matched as described in Materials and
Methods, and images were presented in a
randomized order. Although readers
were blinded to the two different detec-
tors and exposure doses, they were able
to differentiate between the different ex-
posure levels on the basis of the impres-
sion of image noise. In addition, images
obtained with the flat-panel detector had
a distinctly different appearance than
those obtained with storage phosphor ra-
diography because of different processing
techniques. A subjective preference might
be due to the observer’s prior familiarity
with the appearance of images. As shown
in the results, the Az values for one reader
were smaller than those of the other
readers for almost all simulated patterns.
One explanation might be that this
reader had more experience with film-
based radiography than with digital radi-
ography.
Although the detection performance
with the portable indirect flat-panel de-
tector used in our phantom study was at
least as good as that of storage phosphor
radiography, it is difficult to predict the
performance of a portable indirect flat-
panel detector under conditions of dose
reduction in pediatric patients: The tech-
nical parameters used in our study were
within the limits of those recommended
by the American College of Radiology.
Thus, we do not expect more motion ar-
tifacts with the portable GadOX-aSi flat-
panel detector than with the storage
phosphor system and the same parame-
ters. The data from our phantom study,
however, can only give first evidence
concerning the option of dose reduction
with the portable flat-panel detector in
pediatric radiology because it is impossi-
ble to perform triple exposure in new-
borns, infants, or small children on the
basis of the study design we used. The
influence of a moving patient, heart-
beats, and breathing cannot be evaluated
in any phantom study. According to the
results of our experimental study, the ap-
plication of the portable indirect flat-
panel detector under clinical conditions
is mandatory.
The portable flat-panel detector with-
out cassette handling and processing, as
well as the rapid availability of images,
appear to be advantages in an intensive
care unit.
We conclude that the detection perfor-
mance of the portable GadOX-aSi flat-
panel detector at 800 digital speed for
pediatric use is at least as good as that of
storage phosphor radiography at 400 dig-
ital speed.
Practical application: Our data sug-
gest that the portable GadOX-aSi flat-
panel detector offers a detection perfor-
mance at least as good as that with stor-
age phosphor radiography in the
detection of catheters, nodules, and in-
terstitial lung disease— even at exposure
settings equivalent to 800 digital speed.
References
1. Strotzer M, Gmeinwieser J, Voelk M, et al.
Detection of simulated chest lesions with
normal and reduced radiation dose: com-
parison of conventional screen-film radi-
ography and a flat-panel x-ray detector
based on amorphous silicon. Invest Radiol
1998;33(2):98 –103.
2. Bernhardt TM, Otto D, Reichel G, et al.
Detection of simulated interstitial lung dis-
ease and catheters with selenium, storage
phosphor, and film-based radiography. Ra-
diology 1999;213:445– 454.
3. Samei E, Hill JG, Frey GD, Southgate WM,
Mah E, Delong D. Evaluation of a flat-
panel digital radiographic system for low-
dose portable imaging in neonates. Med
Phys 2003;30(4):601– 607.
490  Radiology  November 2005 Rapp-Bernhardt et al
Radiology

4. Volk M, Strotzer M, Gmeinwieser J, et al.
Flat-panel x-ray detector using amorphous
silicon technology: reduced radiation dose
for the detection of foreign bodies. Invest
Radiol 1997;32(7):373–377.
5. Strotzer M, Voelk M, Wild T, von Landen-
berg P, Feuerbach S. Simulated bone ero-
sions in a hand phantom: detection with
conventional screen-film technology ver-
sus cesium iodide-amorphous silicon flat-
panel detector. Radiology 2000;215:512–
515.
6. Floyd CE, Warp RJ, Dobbins JT, et al. Im-
aging characteristics of an amorphous sili-
con flat-panel detector for digital chest ra-
diography. Radiology 2001;218:683– 688.
7. Watanabe M, Mochizuki C, Kameshima T,
et al. Development and evaluation of a
portable amorphous silicon flat-panel x-
ray detector. In: Mesbahi, M. Proc SPIE
2001; 4320: 103–114.
8. Rapp-Bernhardt U, Roehl FW, Gibbs RC,
Schmidl H, Krause UW, Bernhardt TM.
Flat-panel x-ray detector based on amor-
phous silicon versus asymmetric screen-
film system: phantom study of dose reduc-
tion and depiction of simulated findings.
Radiology 2003;227:484 – 492.
9. Schaefer-Prokop C, Prokop M. Digital radi-
ography of the chest: comparison of the
selenium detector with other imaging sys-
tems. Medicamundi 1997;41(1):2–11.
10. Ludwig K, Schu¨lke C, Diederich S, et al.
Detection of subtle undisplaced rib fractures
in a porcine model: radiation dose require-
ment—digital flat-panel versus screen-film
and storage-phosphor systems. Radiology
2003;227:163–168.
11. Ludwig K, Ahlers K, Wormanns D, et al.
Lumbar spine radiography: digital flat-
panel detector versus screen-film and stor-
age-phosphor systems in monkeys as a pe-
diatric model. Radiology 2003;229:
140 –144.
12. Hennigs SP, Jaeger HJ, Garmer M, Gissler
M, Christmann A, Mathias KD. Digital
chest radiography with a large area 43 
43 cm flat panel silicon x-ray detector:
clinical comparison with conventional ra-
diography for visualization of anatomical
regions (abstr). Radiology 1999;213(P):
429.
13. Gould RG, Ominski SH, Andriole KP.
Comparison of a DR system to conven-
tional film for upright chest imaging (ab-
str). Radiology 1999;213(P):234.
14. Yamazaki T, Satoh M, Eguchi Y, Endo Y,
Kaga Y. Image quality of the digital radi-
ography system using the flat panel detec-
tor compared with the storage phosphor
radiography system (abstr). Radiology 1998;
209(P):580.
Volume 237  Number 2 Portable Indirect Flat-Panel Detector  491
Radiology
