queueId: ingest-1781569954387-haf
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260213 태국 MD Healthcard Co., Ltd/251209 보완서류/2.2 [Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector] Technical Document/A-CSDT-23G attachment (Rev.5)/9. Validation and verification/9.6 clinical/9.6.3 literatures/Literature #8.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/47d97a6d083b/Literature #8__47d97a6d083b_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 1b080c4b1955
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 396

SOURCE_TEXT
Radiología. 2013;55(3):239---246
www.elsevier.es/rx
ORIGINAL REPORT
Wireless digital radiography detectors in the emergency area: An
efficacious solution
M. Garrido Blázquez a , M. Agulla Otero b , F.J. Rodríguez Recio a,∗,
R. Torres Cabrera b , I. Hernando González b
a Servicio de Radiodiagnóstico, Complejo Asistencial de Segovia, Segovia, Spain
b Servicio de Radiofísica y Protección Radiológica, Hospital Universitario Río Hortega, Valladolid, Spain
Received 23 April 2011; accepted 2 August 2011
KEYWORDS
Computed
radiography (CR);
Flat panel digital
radiography (DR);
Workflow efficiency
Abstract
Objectives: To evaluate the implementation of a flat panel digital radiolography (DR) system
with WiFi technology in an emergency radiology area in which a computed radiography (CR)
system was previously used. We analyzed aspects related to image quality, radiation dose,
workflow, and ergonomics.
Material and methods: We analyzed the results obtained with the CR and WiFi DR systems
related with the quality of images analyzed in images obtained using a phantom and after
radiologists’ evaluation of radiological images obtained in real patients. We also analyzed the
time required for image acquisition and the workflow with the two technological systems.
Finally, we analyzed the data related to the dose of radiation in patients before and after the
implementation of the new equipment.
Results: Image quality improved in both the tests carried out with a phantom and in radiological
images obtained in patients, which increased from 3 to 4.5 on a 5-point scale. The average time
required for image acquisition decreased by 25 s per image. The flat panel required less radiation
to be delivered in practically all the techniques carried out using automatic dosimetry, although
statistically significant differences were found in only some of the techniques (chest, thoracic
spine, and lumbar spine).
Conclusions: Implementing the WiFi DR system has brought benefits. Image quality has improved
and the dose of radiation to patients has decreased. The new system also has advantages in
terms of functionality, ergonomics, and performance.
© 2011 SERAM. Published by Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.
 Please cite this article as: Garrido Blázquez M., et al. Detectores radiográficos digitales inalámbricos en una sala de radiología de
urgencias. Una solución eficaz. Radiología. 2013;55:239---46.
∗ Corresponding author.
E-mail address: jrrecio@gmail.com (F.J. Rodríguez Recio).
2173-5107/$ – see front matter © 2011 SERAM. Published by Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

240 M. Garrido Blázquez et al.
PALABRAS CLAVE
Radiología
computarizada (CR);
Sistema digital de
pantalla plana (DR);
Solución eficaz
Detectores radiográficos digitales inalámbricos en una sala de radiología
de urgencias. Una solución eficaz
Resumen
Objetivos: Evaluar la implantación de un sistema digital de pantalla plana (flat panel digital
radiography [DR]) con tecnología WiFi, en una sala de radiología de urgencias que previamente
estaba trabajado con un sistema de radiología computarizada (computed radiography [CR]). Se
analizaron aspectos de calidad de imagen, reducción de dosis, flujo de trabajo y ergonomía.
Material y métodos: Se estudiaron los resultados obtenidos con sistemas CR y DR-WiFi, rela-
cionados con la calidad de imagen analizada en imágenes obtenidas en maniquí y tras la
valoración de imágenes radiológicas por radiólogos, también se analizaron tiempos y flujo de
trabajo en la realización de los estudios con ambos métodos y especialmente se estudiaron
datos de reducción de dosis en grupos de pacientes antes y después de la instalación del nuevo
equipamiento.
Resultados: La calidad de imagen mejoró tanto en las pruebas realizadas sobre maniquí como
en la evaluación por radiólogos, que aumentó de 3 a 4,5 en una escala máxima de 5; los
tiempos de estudio disminuyeron un promedio de 25 segundos por cada imagen; se com-
probó que se requiere utilizar menos radiación con el panel plano en prácticamente todas
las técnicas llevadas a cabo con exposimetría automática, aunque el estudio solo ha mostrado
diferencias estadísticamente significativas en algunas de las técnicas (tórax, columna dorsal y
lumbar).
Conclusiones: La instalación del sistema DR-WiFi ha sido beneficiosa. Se ha producido un incre-
mento en la calidad de imagen con una reducción de la dosis en los pacientes, junto a ventajas
en términos de funcionalidad, ergonomía y rendimiento.
© 2011 SERAM. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L. Todos los derechos reservados.
Introduction
The progressive incorporation of image digital systems to the
Radiodiagnostic Services has given rise to a debate about the
advantages and drawbacks of said systems. 1---3
When planning the replacement of radiology equipment,
whether analog or not, for a new, digital one, one of a more
advanced technology, it is usual for issues to arise concerning
the foreseeable changes in image quality, patient’s doses
and aspects related to ergonomics and ward efficiency.
The selection of the optimal examination techniques in
digital radiology equipment is not trivial. In conventional
analog systems, the reduced latitude of a given film-screen
combination leaves a relatively narrow margin for choosing
the optimal technique in each case. Nevertheless, digital
systems allow for a wide range of variations in the tech-
niques used for a given examination, which brings about
subtle and continual modifications in the characteristics of
the image, said modifications may determine their diagnos-
tic value in ways that, on occasion, are difficult to assess. 2,3
In fact, most of the times it is possible to improve image
quality with digital systems by increasing the doses given
to the patients and since their implantation; it may be
observed that derivations to higher doses may occur in this
type of systems. 4,5 However, at present, the high efficiency
of many detectors existing in the market makes it possible
for digital radiology to reduce the patients’ doses without
compromising the diagnostic value of the examinations.
With the installation of new radiological equipment, it is
desirable to achieve an improvement in image quality from
the point of view of their diagnostic value, a reduction in
the doses given to patients or, preferably a combination of
both objectives; moreover, other expected advantages refer
to aspects of functionality, ergonomics and performance.
In order to assess the efficaciousness of the use of wire-
less digital radiograph detectors, the study presented in this
paper was undertaken in one of the radiology wards at our
hospital.
Materials and methods
In the Segovia Hospital’s Emergency Room, the Radiodiag-
nostic Service has a general radiology ward consisting of
a four-year-old X ray apparatus, Siemens Multix Top ® , and
a seven-year-old computed radiography [CR] system, AGFA
ADC Compact Plus ® , with phosphorus screens model MD40.
The decision was made to replace the CR, seeking a solu-
tion that would keep the X-rays ward analog. The equipment
to be installed had to fulfill all the expectations for an ER
radiology ward, where work is constant twenty-four/seven,
with a daily average of 200 patients in different access
conditions: walking, bedridden, polytraumatized, etc., it is
necessary to perform examinations with bucky, directly or
projections with horizontal rays.
It was imperative for it to be installed rapidly and for
the radiology technicians to learn and become acquainted
with it quickly, since for operative reasons concerning the
services rendered, it was not possible to interrupt the ward’s
operations.
A flat panel direct digital system with wireless Wi-Fi
technology (Wireless Fidelity, Wireless Ethernet Compati-
bility Alliance® ) was chosen, it was supplied by Carestream
Health, model DRX-1 ® , using two flat wireless detectors.

Wireless digital radiography detectors in the emergency area 241
The DRX-1 system is compatible with any conventional
radiology ward using radiograph chassis or 35 cm × 43 cm CR,
and it does not require making any modifications either in
the generator, or in any other elements in the radiology
ward. It consists of one or more amorphous silicon flat digi-
tal detectors, with a reception area of 2.544 × 3.056 pixels,
each of them 139 m × 139 m 6 in size.
In order to undertake the study of the radiation doses
on the patients, a non-systematic data collection of the
images of radiologic studies was carried out before and after
the new equipment was installed. The radiology technicians
carried out the registration intermittently, within the avail-
ability that the heavy workload of the ER radiology ward
allowed. Data on the patients’ age, sex or weight were not
collected; only technical radiograph data and data on the
equipment’s operation were collected.
The first sample with 968 images was collected before the
system’s replacement, with the technical parameters used,
adjustment of the Automatic Control of Exposure (ACE), the
work methods and procedures of the facility’s operators just
like they were in that moment, with the AGFA ADC Compact
Plus ® system. Table 1 presents a selection of the parameters
collected.
At the moment of the wireless flat panels incorporation
(one on the examination table and the other on the wall),
a very accurate follow-up of the operations was carried out
jointly with the technical services of the suppliers of both
the flat panels and the X-ray apparatus. In order to make
decisions about the adjustments to be made on the ACE and
the parameters of the new digital system, a contrast detail
dummy CDRAD 2.0 (Artinis Medical Systems B.V. ® ) was used,
with a 70 kW voltage, filtering the radiation beam with 1 mm
of copper, at a distance of 1.8 m, and with an appropriate
technique to produce a kerma value in the air of 10 Gy at
the entrance of each of the detectors.
In order to compare the detectors’ technical efficiency,
images were taken with the CR system used so far and
with the new Wi-Fi flat panels to be used from then on.
The resulting images were subjected to an automatic anal-
ysis by means of the software CDRAD Analyser, 7 from which
both the contrast-detail curves and the IQF inv value (inverse
formula image quality index) 8 corresponding to each curve
were obtained.
An anthropomorphic thorax dummy was used for a pre-
liminary adjustment of the processing software parameters
of the images obtained with the flat panels. Once this first
adjustment had been established, its refinement began by
means of the evaluation of the clinical images by the radi-
ologist in charge of reporting the examinations carried out
in the ward. Said refinement was produced for a set of high-
frequency or special interest studies (thorax, lumbar spine,
abdomen, and wrist-hand).
In one final stage of the process, the ACE was adjusted.
It was decided to set up the system in a way so that it would
allow for a moderate reduction in patient doses, at least
in some examinations, and at the same time the diagnostic
quality of most images improved.
The second sample, with 1288 images, was selected from
the examinations performed in the two months after substi-
tution of the image system. The technical parameters were
collected from the sample for the group of techniques indi-
cated in Table 1.
Due to the type of samples, and because no data on
age, sex, weight or other parameters were collected, the
samples turned out to be asymmetric and they did not
comply with the criteria for normalcy (Kolmogorov---Smirnov
test, p ≤ 0.001); that is why a non-parametric test was
used for the statistical analysis: the Mann Whitney U Test. 9
The statistical significance was established for a value of
p < 0.05.
The statistical analysis was made with the program SPSS
v. 15.0; a comparison of the radiation level in examinations
performed with automatic exposimetry was carried out in
the two samples (with CR and DRX1), in order to assess the
differences in global doses and those by specific techniques,
and their statistical significance.
On the other hand, the study has attempted to quantify
the possible advantages in terms of image quality appraised
by radiologists, functionality and performance at the radi-
ology emergency ward (reduction of time per examination
and performance).
Evaluating the diagnostic value improvement of the
images obtained after the installation of the new equip-
ment is difficult to objectify; in order to come close to an
impression that on many occasions is subjective on the part
of the radiologist, a survey was conducted among 10 senior
radiologists who usually report to the emergency radiology
studies. In the survey they appraised radiological images,
obtained both with the previous CR system and the newly
installed DRX1, they were requested to compare them with
the images taken with other digital equipment with fixed
flat panels (flat digital panel radiography DR) installed in
the Radiodiagnostic Service. Thorax, lumbar spine, abdomen
and wrist-hand examinations were selected from both out
patients and hospitalized patients, performed both with grill
and directly. All the studies were evaluated in parallel and
individually by the radiologists, who assigned to the image
a diagnostic quality value in a scale of 1---5, where value
1 corresponded to poor quality and value 5 to maximum
quality.
In order to assess the reduction in the time in which the
images are obtained, an estimation of the mean examination
times was made, in the first patient sample with the CR
system, in the second with the DRX1. To this end, several
clocked measurements were taken from the moment of X-
ray exposure, until the image is processed and is available
on the ward’s control monitor.
In relation to ergonomics, in order to appreciate the
advantages of the DRX1system, a non-ruled survey among
the radiology technicians was conducted.
Results
Table 1 shows a selection of the mean technical parameters
used in different examinations with the CR system, with the
usual work methods and procedures in the facility up to the
moment of replacement for the DRX 1 system. This table
also includes the estimated value for the patient’s surface
entrance dose (SED), estimated for each of the examinations
from said parameters, from the equipment’s geometric and
performance values, all measured in the previous quality
control verification of the X-ray emitter. It can be observed
that the SED is, in all the cases, below the reference values

242 M. Garrido Blázquez et al.
Table 1 Average technical parameters used in different examinations and estimation of patient entrance dose (SED) with the
CR system, with the usual work methods and procedures in the facilities until the moment they were replaced by the DRX-1
system.
Examination Automatic exposimetry Support Mean voltage (kV) Mean load (mAs) Mean SED (mGy)
Thorax PA Yes Wall 124 1.6 0.10
Thorax LAT Yes Wall 125 6.5 0.40
Paranasal Senes Yes Wall 64 29.4 2.03
Cervical Spine AP Yes Wall 56 24.5 1.21
cervical Spine LAT Yes Wall 56 26.1 1.37
Shoulder AP Yes Wall 63 25.4 1.68
Thorax AP Yes Table 87 8.7 1.10
Abdomen Yes Table 66 45.1 3.33
Pelvis Yes Table 66 31.8 2.32
Dorsal Spine AP Yes Table 65 61.6 4.31
Dorsal Spine LAT Yes Table 66 66.5 4.59
Lumbar Spine LAT Yes Table 78 71.9 7.64
Lumbar Spine AP Yes Table 67 109.4 8.09
Hip AP Yes Table 64 36.8 2.48
AXIAL hip Yes Table 65 24.2 1.72
Knee AP Yes Table 55 24.1 0.89
Knee LAT Yes Table 54 24.7 0.89
Thorax AP No Direct 59 3.0 0.18
Elbow AP No Direct 49 4.1 0.09
Elbow LAT No Direct 49 4.1 0.09
Hand AP No Direct 45 2.5 0.04
Hand oblique No Direct 45 2.7 0.04
Wrist AP No Direct 45 3.0 0.05
Wrist LAT No Direct 46 3.3 0.06
Ankle AP No Direct 51 4.0 0.11
Ankle LAT No Direct 51 4.0 0.11
Foot AP No Direct 47 2.5 0.05
Foot oblique No Direct 47 2.5 0.05
AP: anteroposterior; DRX1: WIFI-flat panel digital radiography; LAT: lateral; PA: posteroanterior.
that the Spanish legislation and the European Union establish
as maximal. 10
Fig. 1 shows the contrast detail curves and the IQF inv
associated to each of them, the greater efficiency of the
wireless flat panel analyzed causes the contrast detail curve
to move down, at the same dose, or in other words, it
causes the quality index IQF inv to increase. In theory,
it would allow getting images of significantly greater objec-
tive quality with the same doses that were being used. As
well, it would be possible to use the alternative option of
maintaining quality level reducing the doses given, in order
to assess it, images were taken of the CDRAD 2.0 dummy
at lower doses. Fig. 2 offers a comparison of the contrast
detail curves obtained with the CR system at the reference
dose of 10 Gy and with the wireless panel at a considerably
lower dose (3 Gy), and it was possible to observe a practi-
cally equal image quality in terms of contrast detail curve
and quality index IQF inv , in spite of the considerable dose
difference.
From the formal point of view, in terms of image in
dummy, the change likewise presupposes an IQF inv index
increment, an objective change that guarantees greater
detectability of objects with a combination of reduced
contrast and size, although it is difficult to translate that in
terms of diagnostic results.
The approximation to the perception of improvement
of the diagnostic value of the images was carried out by
means of surveying the radiologists. For the CR system, the
mean perceived image quality was three points, while with
the new DRX1 system it rose to an average punctuation of
4.5 point. (The maximum value was fixed at 5 for the quality
perceived in the images obtained from the fixed DR equip-
ment that are installed in other wards of the Radiodiagnostic
Service.)

Regarding the doses given to the patients, a tendency
to reduction may be verified, and it is greater in cer-
tain examinations and hardly perceptible in others. It must
be borne in mind that some of them are carried out by
means of manual techniques, without using the automatic
control of exposure (ACE); such manual techniques have not
been subjected to revision.
The dose analysis was performed comparing the two sam-
ples, the first consisting of 968 radiograph images obtained
with the previous CR system, and the second of 1288 images
taken with the new wireless flat panel system. Analyz-
ing all the tests performed with automatic exposimetry,

Wireless digital radiography detectors in the emergency area 243
Group Voltage
(kV)
Mean
load
(mAs)
Doses
μGy
DFD
(m)
Filter
(mm Cu) IQFinv
6.68 1 1.8 9.96 20 70 DRX1 (10 μGy)
4.9 1 1.8 9.96 20 70 CR (10 μGy)
Contrast detail curves
Diameter, mm
Depth, mm
DRX1
CR
0
0.2
0.3 0.4 0.5 1.6 0.8 0.6
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.2
1.3 2.5 3.2 6.3 4 8 5
1.4
1.6
1.8
1
1
2
2
Figure 1 Image Quality. Contrast detail curves.
flat panels present a global level of lower mean radia-
tion (1.45 mGy for DRX1; 1.53mGy for CR). However, these
global differences are not statistically significant: Z = 0.170;
p = 0.43.
Using the same test, the radiation levels for each type of
exploration was compared, and it was confirmed that there
is definitely less radiation with the flat panel in practically
all the techniques performed with automatic exposimetry,
with statistically significant differences in several tech-
niques, which are indicated with their values in Table 2.
Table 3 shows the techniques with automatic exposime-
try, which presented a decrease in radiation with DRX 1,
although it was not statistically significant.
The values of time reduction in image acquisition
with DRX1 as opposed to CR showed a mean decrease
of 25 s in obtaining every image, as a consequence of
the change of their characteristics and of the change
of work model between the DR and CR systems, the
mobilization and transportation of the chassis were not nec-
essary.
Group Voltage
(kV)
5.04 1 1.8 2.96 6.3 70 DRX1 (3 μGy)
4.9 1 1.8 9.96 20 70 CR (10 μGy)
DRX1
CR
Contrast detail curves
Cr con 10 μGy. DRX1 con 3 μGy
Diameter, mm
Depth, mm
0.3
0.5
0
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
0.4 0.5 1.6 0.8 0.6 1. 2 3 .5 3.2 6.3 4 8 5 1 2
Mean
load
mAs
Doses
μGy
DFD
(m)
Filter
(mm Cu) IQF inv
Figure 2 Image Quality. Contrast detail curves with smaller doses in DRX1.

244 M. Garrido Blázquez et al.
Table 2 Techniques which presented a statistically significant reduction in radiation in mGy with the new DRX-1 system.
Technique examination # of CR
images
# of
DRX-1
images
Mean mGy
CR values
Mean mGy
DRX-1
values
Mean %
of mGy
decrease
Z value p-Value
Thorax AP (automatic) 18 35 1.10 0.65 40.7% 2.583 0.005
Lumbar Spine AP (automatic) 16 39 8.09 5.84 27.8% 1.705 0.044
Lumbar Spine LA (automatic) 22 40 7.64 5.66 26.0% 1.655 0.049
Shoulder AP (automatic) 25 39 1.68 1.54 8.3% 1.643 0.05
Thorax LAT (automatic) 164 220 0.4 0.34 7.7% 1.918 0.027
Thorax PA (automatic) 194 244 0.10 0.09 8.0% 2.415 0.008
The techniques are shown with the number of images obtained with CR and DR, their mean radiation values in mGy and the decrease
percentage attained with DRX-1.
AP: anteroposterior; CR: computed radiography; DRX1: WIFI-flat panel digital radiography; LAT: lateral; PA: posteroanterior.
Regarding ergonomics, during a survey, the radiology
technicians reported a marked improvement in the condi-
tions to perform their work.
Discussion
Our study shows that, with the installation of the two wire-
less flat panel system, the objectives pursued were attained
with a decrease of patient dose; the diagnostic quality
improves, and the ward presents greater efficiency and func-
tionality.
The results obtained and the decisions made reveal the
difficulty inherent to digital systems in establishing the opti-
mal point at which the radiologic examination techniques
should be adjusted. From just the analysis of clinical images,
it is very difficult to be sure how far or how close a given
technique is from that hypothetical optimal point. The anal-
yses of dummy images indeed make it possible for quality
in quantitative terms to be objectified, but there remain
two issues that must be figured out: on the one hand, what
parameter or parameters are relevant for optimization; on
the other, what degree of concordance is there between that
optimization of the dummy images and those of the clinical
images.
Flat panels, as opposed to CR, have a ‘‘greater detec-
tion quantum efficiency’’ (DQE, a parameter that combines
spatial resolution and noise in the image, and provides a
measure of the signal-to-noise ratio in all the frequencies
that compose the image), making it possible for the patients’
doses to be reduced significantly without compromising the
diagnostic value of the examinations or even improving
it. 11
Studies by other authors point out that the dose reduc-
tion between CR and DR may be in values of up to 50%. 12
Our study has observed a decrease in radiation, both glob-
ally and separately in all the techniques, although probably
some bias in the data collection and the comparison among
asymmetric samples have resulted in the fact that statis-
tic significance has only been shown in given techniques
presented in Table 2.
The improvement in the working conditions of the radi-
ology technicians and of the functionality of the ward is
evident, upon establishing a new workflow and decreasing
significantly the times of study in comparison with the
previous CR system. 13 The change of the work system is, fun-
damentally, in the fact that the CR chassis of every image
obtained do not have to be carried to the reader installed
in the control room, and at a later time it is not necessary
to place another again on the wall or table chassis holder.
With the wireless flat panel system, the chassis remain per-
manently in the chassis holders in the wards and they are
removed only when their built-in battery must be changed
or in order to perform direct examinations. For suitable
operativeness each flat panel system has two batteries, one
inserted in the panel and another as back up fully charged,
Table 3 Techniques with automatic exposimetry which had a decrease in radiation with DRX-1, although it was not statistically
significant (p > 0.05).
Technique examination CR mean values mGy DRX-1 mean values mGy Mean % of mGy decrease p-Value
Hip AP 2.48 2.08 16.4% 0.23
Cervical Spine LAT 1.37 1.25 9.1% 0.20
Par nasal Senes 2.03 1.88 7.4% 0.24
Dorsal Spine AP 4.31 4.07 5.6% 0.30
Dorsal Spine LAT 4.59 4.34 5.5% 0.46
Hip Axial 1.72 1.64 4.6% 0.44
The table shows the techniques, their mean radiation values in mGy for CR and DRX1 and the percentage of decrease attained with
DRX-1.
AP: anteroposterior; CR: computed radiography; DRX1: WIFI-flat panel digital radiography; LAT: lateral.

Wireless digital radiography detectors in the emergency area 245
this way when the system warns that the battery in use
has gone dead, the technician changes the battery quickly
and simply. Average run time of the batteries in full use is
6 h.
It is here, in the work ergonomics department, where
we consider that the wireless system is superior to other
commercial options where the flat panel is joined with the
ward equipment by means of systems with wires. This aspect
is important in a radiology emergency room with access
to bedridden and polytraumatized patients with multiple
elements interfering including beds, chairs, IV drip hold-
ers, respirators, etc., a place where working ‘‘wireless’’
provides easier access to radiologic study in any situation
(bucky, directly on the table, bed or chair, horizontal rays),
without any other obstacle or limitation than the Wi-Fi
coverage range, which widely covers the whole ward. The
ward’s functionality with the new system has maintained all
its capacities and has increased its availability and perfor-
mance significantly. Our observations coincide with those
of other authors, who have reported a sensitive decrease
in the time for obtaining images with the DRX system 1 14
(greater speed in the global execution of the examinations,
improvement in the times of ward occupation, etc.).
The reduction of the exploration times brings about
greater availability of the ward, which may increase to 35%
the number of examinations performed, and thus, according
to data contributed by other authors 15 and business firms,
present greater profitability than the installation of a CR
and make up for the price difference, which is higher for DR
systems; but that is not this paper’s objective. In our case,
since it is an installation in a radiology emergency room,
the number of patients assisted is not a variable of its own;
however, the greater availability of the ward has made it
possible for us to examine with it bedridden inpatients who
were heretofore examined in other radiology wards.
The positive impact of the installation of the DRX1 system
must be appraised in all respects, in addition to the ones
studied concerning the improvement in diagnostic image
quality and radiation decrease for the patients. We must
take into account other aspects such as the radiology ward’s
performance and efficiency, the improvement of the opera-
tors’ working conditions and the significant improvement for
the patients with conditions that require urgent examination
which are diagnosed in a faster, more reliable way.
As a whole, from the information collected in the study,
it is deduced that an increase in image quality has been
obtained along with a moderate reduction in the patients’
doses. We must add the advantages obtained in terms of
ward functionality, ergonomics and performance, which is
why we conclude that the decision of installing a wireless
flat panel system in the radiology emergency room has been
beneficial.
Authorship
1. Person responsible for the study’s integrity: FJRR
2. Conception of the study: MGB, FJRR, IHG
3. The study’s design: MGB, MAO, FJRR, RTC, IHG
4. Data acquisition: MGB, MAO
5. Data analysis and interpretation: MGB, MAO, FJRR, RTC,
IHG
6. Statistic treatment: MGB, RTC
7. Bibliographic search: MGB, MAO, FJRR, RTC, IHG
8. Writing of the paper: MGB, FJRR, IHG
9. Critical revision of the manuscript with intellectually
relevant contributions: MGB, MAO, FJRR, RTC, IHG
10. Approval of the final version: MGB, MAO, FJRR, RTC, IHG
Conflict of interests
The authors declare that they do not have any conflicts of
interests.
Acknowledgements
We are grateful to D. José Manuel García de Cecilia, Tutor-
consulter of Statistics, SPSS and Methodology of healthcare
sciences research, for his help in this paper’s statistical
treatment.
References
1. Sanada S, Doi K, Xu X-W, Yin F-F, Giger ML, MacMahon H. Com-
parison of imaging properties of a computed radiography system
and screen-film systems. Med Phys. 1991;18:414---20.
2. Hernando I, Torres R. Características, ventajas y limitaciones de
los sistemas de adquisición digital de imágenes radiográficas. I+S
Inform Salud. 2003;45:45---53.
3. Andriole KP, Luth DM, Gould RG. Workflow assessment of digital
versus computed radiography and screen-film in the outpatient
environment. J Digit Imaging. 2002;15 Suppl. 1:S124---6.
4. Freedman M, Pe E, Mun SK, Lo SCB, Nelson M. The potential for
unnecessary patient exposure from the use of storage phosphor
imaging systems. Proc SPIE. 1993;1897:472---9.
5. Gur D, Fuhman CR, Feist JH, Slifko R, Peace B. Natural migration
to a higher dose in CR imaging. In: Vienna, Eighth European
Congress of Radiology, ECR. 1993 (Abstract 154).
6. Cowen AR, Kengyelics SM, Davies AG. Solid-state, flat-panel,
digital radiography detectors and their physical imaging char-
acteristics. Clin Radiol. 2008;63:487---98.
7. van der Burght RJM. Manual CDRAD Analyser. The Netherlands:
Artinis Medical Systems B.V.; 2006.
8. Bacher K, Smeets P, Vereecken L, De Hauwere A, Duyck P, De Man
R, et al. Image quality and radiation dose on digital chest imag-
ing: comparison of amorphous silicon and amorphous selenium
flat-panel systems. Am J Roentgenol. 2006;187:630---7.
9. Zetterberg LG, Espeland A. Lumbar spine radiography --- poor
collimation practices after implementation of digital technol-
ogy. Br J Radiol. 2011;84:566---9.
10. Real Decreto 1976/1999, de 23 de diciembre, por el que
se establecen los criterios de calidad en radiodiagnós-
tico. Boletín Oficial del Estado, 29 de diciembre de 1999.
Núm 311. p. 45891. Available from: http://www.msps.es/
profesionales/formacion/formacionContinuada/docs/real
Decreto1976 1999.pdf [accessed 01.06.11].
11. Bacher K, Smeets P, Bonnarens K, De Hauwere A, Verstraete K,
Thierens H. Dose reduction in patients undergoing chest imag-
ing: digital amorphous silicon flat-panel computed radiography
detector radiography versus conventional film-screen radiogra-
phy and phosphor-based. Am J Roentgenol. 2003;181:923---9.
12. Gruber M, Uffmann M, Weber M, Prokop M, Balassy C, Schaefer-
Prokop C. Direct detector radiography versus dual reading
computed radiography: feasibility of dose reduction in chest
radiography. Eur Radiol. 2006;16:1544---50.

246 M. Garrido Blázquez et al.
13. Hartmann B, Rill LN, Arreola M. Workflow efficiency comparison
of a new CR system with traditional CR and DR systems in an
orthopedic setting. J Digit Imaging. 2010;23:666---73.
14. Lehnert T, Naguib NN, Ackermann H, Schomerus C, Jacobi
V, Balzer JO, et al. Novel, portable, cassette-sized, and
wireless flat-panel digital radiography system: initial
workflow results versus computed radiography. Am J
Roentgenol. 2011;196:1368 ---71.
15. Andriole KP. Productivity and cost assessment of com-
puted radiography, digital radiography, and screen-film for
outpatient chest examinations. J Digit Imaging. 2002;15:
161---9.
