queueId: ingest-1781569954421-19k2
sourcePath: raw/sources/DHF (인허가)/03_A1417MCW, A1717MCW, F1417MCW/05_설계개발 검증 및 유효성 확인/07_Software Validation/IEC 62304-1 기반.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/DHF (인허가)/_combined/faf94559c21e/IEC 62304-1 기반__faf94559c21e_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 52b20a4246db
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 4

SOURCE_TEXT
Attachment - Software – IEC 62304:2006+AMD1:2015

—

4.3

[A, B, C] Software safety classification

—

a) The manufacturer assigns to each software system a software safety class according to the risk of harm to the patient, operator, or other people resulting from a hazardous situation to which the software system can contribute in a worst-case-scenario

SDP(Software development plan)_3.0 Classification of software and its application

에 따라서 등급의 결론을 내주시기 바랍니다.

The software system is software safety class A if:

—

– the software system not contribute to a hazardous situation; or

– the software system contribute to a hazardous situation which does not result in unacceptable risk after consideration of risk control measures external to the software system

The software system is software safety class B if:

—

– the software system contribute to a hazardous situation which results in unacceptable risk after consideration of risk control measures external to the software system and the resulting possible harm is non-serious injury

The software system is software safety class C if:

—

– the software system contribute to a hazardous situation which results in unacceptable risk after consideration of risk control measures external to the software system and the resulting possible harm is death or serious injury

For a software system initially classified as software safety class B or C, the manufacturer has implemented additional risk control measures external to the software system and subsequently has assigned a new software safety classification to the software system

c) The manufacturer documents the software safety class assigned to each software system in the risk management file

d) When a software system is decomposed into software items, and when a software item is decomposed into further software items, such software items inherit the software safety classification of the original software item (or software system) unless the manufacturer documents a rationale for classification into a different software safety class

A rationale explains how the new software items are segregated so that they may be classified separately

e) The manufacturer documents the software safety class of each software item if that class is different from the class of the software item from which it was created by decomposition

f) When applied to a group of software items, the manufacturer uses the processes and tasks which are required by the classification of the highest-classified software item in the group unless the manufacturer documents in the risk management file a rationale for using a lower classification

g) Class C requirements apply for each software system, until a software safety class is assigned

4.4

[A, B, C] Legacy software

—

Clauses 5 through 9 have applied to demonstrate the compliance of legacy software

N/A

As alternative, clauses 4.4.2 through 4.4.5 have applied to demonstrate the compliance of legacy software

N/A

4.4.2

[A, B, C] Risk management activities

—

The manufacturer:

a) assesses any feedback, including post-production information, on legacy software regarding incidents and / or near incidents, both from inside its own organization and / or from users

N/A

b) performs risk management activities associated with continued use of the legacy software

N/A

Considering the following aspects:

N/A

– integration of the legacy software in the overall medical device architecture

N/A

– continuing validity of risk control measures, implemented as part of the legacy software

N/A

– identification of hazardous situations associated with the continued use of the legacy software

N/A

– identification of potential causes of the legacy software contributing to a hazardous situations

N/A

– definition of risk control measures for each potential cause of the legacy software contributing to a hazardous situations

N/A

4.4.3

[A, B, C] Gap analysis

N/A

Based on the software safety class of the legacy software, the manufacturer performs a gap analysis of available deliverables against those required according to 5.2, 5.3, 5.7, and Clause 7

N/A

a) The manufacturer assesses the continuing validity of available deliverables

N/A

b) Where gaps are identified, the manufacturer evaluates the potential reduction in risk resulting from the generation of the missing deliverables and associated activities

N/A

c) Based on this evaluation, the manufacturer determines the deliverables to be created and associated activities to be performed

N/A

Software system test records are the minimum deliverables to be created

N/A

4.4.4

[A, B, C] Gap closure activities

N/A

a) The manufacturer establishes and executes a plan to generate the identified deliverables

N/A

Objective evidences have used to generate required deliverables without performing activities required by 5.2, 5.3, 5.7 and Clause 7

N/A

b) The plan addresses the use of the problem resolution process for handling problems detected in the legacy software and deliverables in accordance with Clause 9

N/A

c) Changes to the legacy software have performed in accordance with Clause 6.

N/A

4.4.5

[A, B, C] Rationale for use of legacy software

N/A

The manufacturer documents the version of the legacy software together with a rationale for the continued use of the legacy software

N/A

5

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS

—

5.1

Software development planning

—

5.1.1

[A, B, C] The manufacturer establishes a software development plan (or plans) for conducting the activities of the software development process appropriate to the scope, magnitude, and software safety classifications of the software system to be developed.

SDP (Software development plan) 문서에 소프트웨어 시스템의 범위, 중요도, 안전등급의 내용이 누락되었음.

The software development life cycle model is either fully defined or be referenced in the plan (or plans).

software development life cycle model 가 누락되었습니다.

IEC 60601-1 ed. 3.1, H.2 참고바랍니다.

The plan addresses the following:

a) the processes to be used in the development of the software system

SDP, 4.0 software development environment

A

b) the deliverables (includes documentation) of the activities and tasks

Activities and tasks 의 계획이 누락.

c) traceability between system requirements, software requirements, software system test, and risk control measures implemented in software

SDP의 Traceability analysis 부분에 시스템 요구사항, SW 요구사항, SW system test, 위험통제 수단의 추적성을 추가바랍니다.

d) software configuration and change management, including soup configuration items and software used to support development

SDP_11.0 Software Configuration Management

P

e) software problem resolution for handling problems detected in the medical device software, deliverables and activities at each stage of the life cycle

SDP_12.0 Problem settlement and support in the software development activities

P

5.1.2

[A, B, C] The manufacturer updates the plan, as appropriate, as development proceeds

P

5.1.3

[A, B, C] Software development plan reference to system design and development

a) As inputs for software development, system requirements are referenced in the software development plan by the manufacturer

SW 개발 계획에 시스템 요구사항을 참조해야 합니다.

b) In the software development plan, the manufacturer includes or references procedures for coordinating the software development with the system development necessary to satisfy 4.1 (such as system integration, verification, and validation)

소프트웨어 개발과 설계 및 개발 유효성확인을 조율하는 절차를 계획에 작성하거나 다른 문서를 참고하도록 작성 바랍니다.

5.1.4

[C] Associated with the development of software items of class C, in the software development plan are included or referenced:

a) standards

Class C 인 경우에 적용

b) methods

Class C 인 경우에 적용

c) tools

Class C 인 경우에 적용

5.1.5

[B, C] The manufacturer includes or references in the software development plan, a plan to integrate the software items (including soup) and performs testing during integration

SDP_9.0에 약간의 내용이 있지만, Software integration and integration testing planning 목차를 생성하여 작성하는 것을 권함.

5.1.6

[A, B, C] In the software development plan, the following verification information are included or referenced:

a) deliverables requiring verification

SDP_9.0 Software Verification & Validation 에 산출물에 대해서 명확하게 작성바랍니다.

*산출물: Activity or tasks에 요구되는 (문서를 포함해서) 결과나 출력

P

b) the required verification tasks for each life cycle activity

수명주기 활동에 대한 검증 작업이 누락.

c) milestones at which the deliverables are verified

어떤 산출물이 검증되는지가 누락됨.

d) the acceptance criteria for verification of the deliverables

검증의 기준이 누락됨.

5.1.7

[A, B, C] In the software development plan the manufacturer includes or references a plan to conduct the activities and tasks of the software risk management process, including the management of risks relating to soup

SDP_8.0 Software Risk Management 에 Risk management 를 참고하라는 문구를 작성바랍니다.

5.1.8

[A, B, C] In the software development plan the manufacturer includes or references information about the documents to be produced during the software development life cycle

P

For each identified document or type of document the following information has included or referenced:

P

a) title, name or naming convention

P

b) purpose

P

c) procedures and responsibilities for development, review, approval and modification

P

5.1.9

[A, B, C] The manufacturer includes or references software configuration management information in the software development plan

SDP 에 형상관리 정보가 누락.

자세한 내용은 8.절을 참고.

The software configuration management information includes or references:

a) the classes, types, categories or lists of items to be controlled

SDP 에 형상관리 정보가 누락.

자세한 내용은 8.절을 참고.

b) the software configuration management activities and tasks

See above

c) the organization(s) responsible for performing software configuration management and activities

See above

d) their relationship with other organizations, such as software development or maintenance

See above

e) when the items are to be placed under configuration control

See above

f) when the problem resolution process is to be used

See above

5.1.10

[B, C] The items to be controlled include tools, items or settings, used to develop the medical device software, which could impact the medical device software

SDP 에 소프트웨어 개발에 사용한 tools, items 또는 settings에 대한 내용이 누락.

자세한 내용은 8절을 참고.

5.1.11

[B, C] The manufacturer plans to place configuration items under documented configuration management control before they are verified

SDP 에 형상 항목을 검증하기 전에 형상관리 통제하에 형상 항목이 있도록 계획이 되어야 합니다.

*형상 항목: 특정 기준점에서 유일하게 식별할 수 있는 개체

5.1.12

[B, C] In the software development plan the manufacturer includes or references a procedure for:

a) identifying categories of defects that may be introduced based on the selected programming technology that are relevant to their software system

SDP 에 소프트웨어 시스템과 관련한 프로그래밍으로 유입 될 수 있는 결함 범주를 식별해야 합니다.

b) documenting evidence that demonstrates that these defects do not contribute to unacceptable risk

SDP 에 결함이 허용할 수 없는 위험에 기여하지 않는다는 것을 입증하기 위한 증거를 문서화 해야합니다.

5.2

Software requirements analysis

—

5.2.1

[A, B, C] For each software system of the medical device, the manufacturer defines and documents software system requirements from the system level requirements

SRA(Software requirements analysis) 를 정의하고 문서화해야 합니다.

IEC 60601-1 ed.3.1, 14.7절과 부속서 H.1을 참고바랍니다.

5.2.2

[A, B, C] As appropriate to the medical device software, the manufacturer includes in the software requirements:

a) functional and capability requirements

SDP 5.0 Software Requirements Specification 에 다음과 같은 내용을 추가적으로 작성바랍니다.

보통 별도의 문서로 관리를 합니다.

- 성능

- 물리적 특성(코딩 언어, 운영체제, 플랫폼)

- 소프트웨어가 실행할 컴퓨팅 환경(예: 하드웨어 메모리 크기, 처리 단위, 네트워크 인프라)

- 업그레이드, 다른 프로그램과의 호환성

b) software system inputs and outputs

소프트웨어 시스템의 입출력의 예는 다음과 같습니다.

data characteristics (e.g., numerical, alpha-numeric, format) ranges,

limits, and defaults.

c) interfaces between the software system and other systems

소프트웨어 시스템과 다른 시스템간의 인터페이스를 작성.

d) software-driven alarms, warnings, and operator messages

소프트웨어 기반인 알람, 경고, 연산 메시지를 작성.

e) security requirements

보안 요구사항의 예는 다음과 같습니다.

- 민감한 정보의 절충안.

- 인증

- 권한 부여

- 감사 추적

- 통신 무결성

- 시스템 보안/멜웨어 보호

f) user interface requirements implemented by software

사용자 인터페이스 요구사항은 다음과 같습니다.

- 수동 조작에 대한 지원

- 사람-의료기기간의 상호작용

- 인원에 대한 제약 사항

- 사람의 주의 집중이 필요한 영역

g) data definition and database requirements

데이터 정의 및 데이터베이스 요구사항의 예는 다음과 같습니다.

- Form

- fit

- function

h) installation and acceptance requirements of the delivered medical device software at the operation and maintenance site or sites

운영하는 곳과 유지보수하는 곳에 배포된 의료기기 소프트웨어의 설치 및 허용하는 요구사항을 작성.

i) requirements related to methods of operation and maintenance

운영 방법 및 유지보수 방법과 관련한 요구사항

j) requirements related to IT-network aspects

IT 네트워크 측면과 관련한 요구사항의 예는 다음과 같습니다.

- 네트워크 알람, 경고, 조작자 메시지

- 네트워크 프로토콜

- 네트워크 서비스가 문제될 때의 조작법

k) user maintenance requirements

사용자 유지보수 요구사항

l) regulatory requirements

규제 요구사항

5.2.3

[B, C] The manufacturer includes risk control measures implemented in software in the requirements as appropriate to the medical device software

SVR 11.4 Hazard analysis

5.2.4

[A, B, C] The manufacturer re-evaluates the medical device risk analysis when software requirements are established and update it as appropriate

해당 내용이 누락.

5.2.5

[A, B, C] The manufacturer ensures that existing requirements, including system requirements, are re-evaluated and updated as appropriate as a result of the software requirements analysis activity

해당 내용이 누락.

5.2.6

[A, B, C] The manufacturer verifies and documents that the software requirements:

a) implement system requirements including those relating to risk control

a) ~ f)의 요구사항을 고려하여 소프트웨어 요구사항을 검증해야 합니다.

b) do not contradict one another

c) are expressed in terms that avoid ambiguity

d) are stated in terms that permit establishment of test criteria and performance of tests

e) can be uniquely identified

f) are traceable to system requirements or other source

5.3

Software architectural design

5.3.1

[B, C] The manufacturer transforms the requirements for the medical device software into a documented architecture that describes the software’s structure and identifies the software items

SVR 문서에

IEC 60601-1 Cl.14.8절 참고하여 추가 작성 바랍니다.

5.3.2

[B, C] The manufacturer develops and documents an architecture for the interfaces between the software items and the components external to the software items (both software and hardware), and between the software items

Interface Module

P

5.3.3

[B, C] If a software item is identified as soup, the manufacturer specifies functional and performance requirements for the soup item that are necessary for its intended use

해당되는 경우 SOUP (상용 소프트웨어) 에 대해서 기능 및 성능을 명시해주세요.

5.3.4

[B, C] If a software item is identified as soup, the manufacturer specifies the system hardware and software necessary to support the proper operation of the soup item

해당되는 경우 SOUP (상용 소프트웨어) 이 요구사항은 하드웨어 및 소프트웨어를 명시해주세요.

5.3.5

[C] The manufacturer identifies any segregation between software items that is necessary for risk control, and states how to ensure that such segregation is effective

N/A

5.3.6

[B, C] The manufacturer verifies and documents that:

a) the architecture of the software implements system and software requirements including those relating to risk control

소프트웨어 아키텍처는 a) ~ c)를 고려하여 검증해야 합니다.

b) the software architecture is able to support interfaces between software items and between software items and hardware

c) the medical device architecture supports proper operation of any soup items

5.4

Software detailed design

5.4.1

[B, C] The manufacturer subdivides the software until it is represented by software units

소프트웨어 기본단위가 되는 유닛으로 세분화하는 내용이 작성되어야 합니다.

5.4.2

[C] The manufacturer documents a design with enough detail to allow correct implementation of each software unit

N/A

5.4.3

[C] The manufacturer documents a design for any interfaces between the software unit and external components (hardware or software), as well as any interfaces between software units, detailed enough to implement each software unit and its interfaces correctly

N/A

5.4.4

[C] The manufacturer verifies and documents that the software detailed design:

N/A

a) implements the software architecture

N/A

b) is free from contradiction with the software architecture

N/A

5.5

Software unit implementation

5.5.1

[A, B, C] The manufacturer implements each software unit

소프트웨어 유닛을 구현한 내용을 작성바랍니다.

5.5.2

[B, C] The manufacturer establishes strategies, methods and procedures for verifying the software units

유닛을 검증하기 위한 프로세스를 수립해 주시기 바랍니다.

검증 방법으로 통합 테트스와 시스템테스트 활용하면 됩니다.

Where verification is done by testing, the test procedures are evaluated for adequacy

테스트 절차의 적절성을 평가해야 합니다.

5.5.3

[B, C] The manufacturer establishes acceptance criteria for software units prior to integration into larger software items as appropriate, and ensures that software units meet acceptance criteria

유닛의 허용기준을 수립하고 충족되도록 보장해야 합니다.

허용기준의 예는 다음과 같습니다.

- 소프트웨어 코드가 위험통제 수단을 포함한 요구사항을 구현하고 있는가?

- 소프트웨어 코드가 해당 소프트웨어 유닛에 대한 인터페이스 설계에 모순이 없는가?

- 소프트웨어 코드가 프로그래밍 절차나 코팅 표준을 준수하는가?

5.5.4

[C] When present in the design, the manufacturer includes additional acceptance criteria as appropriate for:

N/A

a) proper event sequence

N/A

b) data and control flow

N/A

c) planned resource allocation

N/A

d) fault handling (error definition, isolation, and recovery)

N/A

e) initialisation of variables

N/A

f) self-diagnostics

N/A

g) memory management and memory overflows

N/A

h) boundary conditions

N/A

5.5.5

[B, C] The manufacturer performs the software unit verification and documents the results

유닛 검증을 수행하고 문서화 해야 합니다.

5.6

Software integration and integration testing

5.6.1

[B, C] The manufacturer integrates the software units in accordance with the integration plan

5.1.5절의 통합계획에 따라 SW 유닛, 아이템, 시스템이 통합해야 합니다.

5.6.2

[B, C] The manufacturer verifies that the software units have been integrated into software items and/or the software system in accordance with the integration plan and retains records of the evidence of such verification

5.1.5절의 통합계획에 따라 SW 유닛, 아이템, 시스템이 통합됨을 검증해야 하고 기록해야 합니다

검증은 inspection(정적테스트) 형태로 구현됩니다.

5.6.3

[B, C] The manufacturer tests the integrated software items in accordance with the integration plan and documents the results

SW 아이템을 테스트하고 결과를 문서화해야 합니다.

5.6.4

[B, C] For software integration testing, the manufacturer addresses whether the integrated software item performs as intended

소프트웨어 통합세스트에 대해 통합된 소프트웨어 항목이 의도한대로 수행하는지 제시해야 합니다.

고려사항의 예는 다음과 같습니다.

소프트웨어 요구사하는 기능

위험통제 수단의 구현

명세된 타이밍과 기타 행동

내부/외부 인터페이스에 대한 명세된 기능

예상 가능한 오용을 포함한 비정상적 조건하에서의 테스팅

5.6.5

[B, C] The manufacturer evaluates the integration test procedures for adequacy

통합테스트의 적절성을 평가해야 합니다.

5.6.6

[B, C] When software items are integrated, the manufacturer conducts regression testing appropriate to demonstrate that defects have not been introduced into previously integrated software

통합할 때 이전 소프트웨어에 결함이 유입되지 않았다는 것을 입증하기 위해서

리그레이션 테스트를 수행해야 합니다.

5.6.7

[B, C] The manufacturer:

a) documents the test result (pass/fail and a list of anomalies)

테스트 결과를 문서화해야 합니다.

b) retains sufficient records to permit the test to be repeated

반복 테스트가 가능하도록 상세히 기록해야 합니다.

c) identifies the tester

테스터의 정보를 기입해야 합니다.

5.6.8

[B, C] The manufacturer enters anomalies found during software integration and integration testing into a software problem resolution process

통합테스트에서 발견한 문제점을 소프트웨어 9.절 문제해결 프로세스에 입력해야 합니다.

5.7

Software system testing

5.7.1

[A, B, C] Establish tests for software requirements

—

a) The manufacturer establishes and performs a set of tests, expressed as input stimuli, expected outcomes, pass/fail criteria and procedures, for conducting software system testing, such that all software requirements are covered

SW 요구사항을 만족하기 위해서 소프트웨어 시스템 테스트에서 입력, 예상 출력, 적합, 부적합 기준, 절차로 표현되는 테스트 구성 집합을 수립하고 수행해야 합니다.

b) The manufacturer evaluates the adequacy of verification strategies and test procedures.

5.7.2

[A, B, C] The manufacturer enters anomalies found during software system testing into a software problem resolution process

시스템 테스트동안에 발견한 문제점을 소프트웨어 9.절 문제해결 프로세스에 적용해야 합니다.

5.7.3

[A, B, C] When changes are made during software system testing, the manufacturer:

a) repeats tests, performs modified tests or performs additional tests, as appropriate, to verify the effectiveness of the change in correcting the problem

시스템 테스트 동안에 변경이 발생하는 경우에 a) ~ c) 를 수행해야 합니다.

b) conducts testing appropriate to demonstrate that unintended side effects have not been introduced

c) performs relevant risk management activities as defined in 7.4

5.7.4

[A, B, C] Evaluate software system testing

The manufacturer evaluates the appropriateness of verification strategies and test procedures

시스템 테스트의 검증 전략 및 절차의 적절성을 평가해야 합니다.

아래 a) ~ c) 에 따라서 검증해야 합니다.

The manufacturer verifies that:

a) all software requirements have been tested or otherwise verified

b) the traceability between software requirements and tests or other verification is recorded

c) test results meet the required pass/fail criteria

5.7.5.

[A, B, C] In order to support the repeatability of tests, the manufacturer documents:

a) a reference to test case procedures showing required actions and expected results

시스템 테스트의 반복성을 위해서 a) ~ g) 사항을 문서화해야 합니다.

b) the test result (pass/fail and a list of anomalies)

c) the version of software tested

d) relevant hardware and software test configurations

e) relevant test tools

f) date tested

g) the identity of the person responsible for executing the test and recording the test results

5.8

Software release for utilization at a system level

5.8.1

[A, B, C] The manufacturer ensures that all software verification activities has been completed and the results evaluated before the software is released

SW를 배포하기 전에 모든 SW 검증 활동이 완료됨을 보장해야 합니다.

5.8.2

[A, B, C] The manufacturer documents all known residual anomalies

잔여 문제점을 문서화 해야 합니다.

5.8.3

[B, C] The manufacturer ensured that all known residual anomalies have been evaluated to ensure that they do not contribute to an unacceptable risk

잔여 문제점을 평가해야 합니다.

5.8.4

[A, B, C] The manufacturer documented the version of the medical device software that is being released

배포한 버전을 문서화

5.8.5

[B, C] The manufacturer documents the procedure and environment used to create the released software

생성할 때 사용한 절차 및 환경을 문서화

5.8.6

[B, C] The manufacturer ensures that all software development plan (or maintenance plan) activities and tasks are complete along with the associated documentation

SW 개발 계획의 activity 와 Tasks가 완료됨을 보장해야 합니다.

5.8.7

[A, B, C] For at least a period of time determined as the longer of: the life time of the medical device software as defined by the manufacturer or a time specified by relevant regulatory requirements, the manufacturer archives:

a) the medical device software and configuration items

보관기간은

의료기기 소프트웨어의 수명이나, 관련 규제 요구사항에서 규정한 기간 중에 더 긴 기간으로 정합니다.

b) the documentation

5.8.8

[A, B, C] The manufacturer establishes procedures to ensure that the released medical device software can be reliably delivered to the point of use without corruption or unauthorised change

아래 6가지를 고려하여 배포의 신뢰성을 보장해야 합니다.

These procedures address the production and handling of media containing the medical device software including as appropriate:

– replication

– media labelling

– packaging

– protection

– storage

– delivery

7

SOFTWARE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS

—

7.1

Analysis of software contributing to hazardous situations

—

7.1.1

[B, C] The manufacturer identifies software items that could contribute to a hazardous situation identified in the medical device risk analysis activity of ISO 14971

ISO 14971의 위험분석활동에서 식별한 위해사항에 기여하는 소프트웨어 아이템을 식별해야 합니다.

7.1.2

[B, C] The manufacturer identifies potential causes of the software item identified above contributing to a hazardous situation

위해상황에 기여하는 위해요인을 식별해야 합니다.

위해요인은 a) ~ e)를 고려합니다.

The manufacturer considers potential causes including, as appropriate:

a) incorrect or incomplete specification of functionality

b) software defects in the identified software item functionality

c) failure or unexpected results from soup

d) hardware failures or other software defects that could result in unpredictable software operation

e) reasonably foreseeable misuse

7.1.3

[B, C] If failure or unexpected results from soup is a potential cause of the software item contributing to a hazardous situation, the manufacturer evaluates as a minimum any anomaly list published by the supplier of the soup item relevant to the version of the soup item used in the medical device to determine if any of the known anomalies result in a sequence of events that could result in a hazardous situation

해당되는 경우에, SOUP 로 인한 위해요인이 식별되면 평가해야 합니다.

7.1.4

[B, C] The manufacturer documents in the risk management file potential causes of the software item contributing to a hazardous situation

위해요인을 RM 파일에 문서화해야 합니다.

7.2

Risk control measures

—

7.2.1

[B, C] For each case documented in the risk management file where a software item could contribute to a hazardous situation, the manufacturer defines and documents risk control measures in accordance with ISO 14971

위험통제 수단을 정의해야 합니다.

위험통제 수단은 다음과 같습니다.

하드웨어, 소프트웨어, 작업 환경 또는 사용자 매뉴얼

7.2.2

[B, C] If a risk control measure is implemented as part of the functions of a software item, the manufacturer:

a) includes the risk control measure in the software requirements

위험통제 수단을 소프트웨어 아이템 기능의 일부로 구현했다면 a) ~ c)를 수행해야 합니다.

b) assigns to each software item that contributes to the implementation of a risk control measure a software safety class based on the risk that the risk control measure is controlling

c) develops the software item in accordance with Clause 5

7.3

Verification of risk control measures

—

7.3.1

[B, C] The implementation of each risk control measure documented in 7.2 is verified, and this verification is documented

ISO 14971에 따라서 위험통제 수단을 검증하고 문서화해야 합니다.

RM 문서와 FMEA 에 포함되어 있습니다.

The manufacturer reviewers the risk control measure and determines if it could result in a new hazardous situation

위험통제 수단이 새로운 위해상황을 발생시키지는 검토해야 합니다.

7.3.3

[B, C] The manufacturer documents traceability of software hazards as appropriate:

a) from the hazardous situation to the software item

위해요인의 추적성을 위해 a) ~ d) 항목을 고려합니다.

b) from the software item to the specific software cause

c) from the software cause to the risk control measure

d) from the risk control measure to the verification of the risk control measure

7.4

Risk management of software changes

—

7.4.1

[A, B, C] The manufacturer analyses changes to the medical device software (including soup) to determine whether:

a) additional potential causes are introduced contributing to a hazardous situation

a) 와 b)를 결정하기 위해 의료기기 SW에 대한 변경을 분석해야 합니다.

b) additional software risk control measures are required

7.4.2

[B, C] The manufacturer analyses changes to the software, including changes to soup, to determine whether the software modification could interfere with existing risk control measures

SW변경이 위험통제수단에 지장을 줄 수 있는지 여부를 결정하기 위해서 변경을 분석해야 합니다.

7.4.3

[B, C] The manufacturer performs relevant risk management activities defined in 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3 based on these analyses

분석은 RM 에 따라서 수행해야 합니다.

8

SOFTWARE CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT PROCESS

—

8.1

Configuration identification

—

8.1.1

[A, B, C] The manufacturer establishes a scheme for the unique identification of configuration items and their versions to be controlled according to the development and configuration planning specified in 5.1

5.1에 명시한 개발 및 형상 계획에 따라 제어될 형상 항목 (configuration items )과 해당 버전의 고유 식별 계획을 수립해야 합니다.

8.1.2

[A, B, C] For each soup configuration item being used, including standard libraries, the manufacturer documents:

a) the title

SOUP를 a) ~ c)를 포함하여 문서화해야 합니다.

b) the manufacturer

c) the unique soup designator

8.1.3

[A, B, C] The manufacturer documents the set of configuration items and their versions that comprise the software system configuration

SW 시스템을 구성하는 configuration itemsr과 버전을 문서화해야 합니다.

8.2

Change control

—

8.2.1

[A, B, C] The manufacturer changes configuration items identified to be controlled according to 8.1 only in response to an approved change request

승인된 변경요청에 따라서만 8.1절에 따라 통제되어 식별한 형상 항목을 변경해야 합니다.

8.2.2

[A, B, C] The manufacturer implements the change as specified in the change request

변경 요청에 명세한 바와 가이 변경을 구현해야 합니다.

The manufacturer identifies and performs any activity that needs to be repeated as a result of the change, including changes to the software safety classification of software systems and software items

적절한 변경통제를 달성하기 위해 어떻게 변경을 구현해야 하는지를 기술합니다. 이것은 구현이 변경통제 프로세스의 필수적인 요소임을 의미하는 것은 아닙니다.

8.2.3

[A, B, C] The manufacturer verifies the change, including repeating any verification that has been invalidated by the change and taking into account 5.7.3 and 9.7

5.7.2.과 9.7을 고려하여 변경을 검증해야 합니다.

8.2.4

[A, B, C] The manufacturer maintains records of the relationships and dependencies between:

a) change request

변경 추적성을 위해서 a) ~ c)의 요구사항을 만족해야 합니다.

b) relevant problem report

c) approval of the change request

8.3

[A, B, C] The manufacturer retains retrievable records of the history of controlled configuration items including system configuration

기록 이력을 보존해야 합니다.

9

SOFTWARE PROBLEM RESOLUTION PROCESS

—

9.1

[A, B, C] The manufacturer prepares a problem report for each problem detected in the medical device software

SW에서 식별된 문제에 대한 문제 보고서를 준비해야 합니다.

Problem reports include a statement of criticality (for example, effect on performance, safety, or security) as well as other information that may aid in the resolution of the problem (for example, devices affected, supported accessories affected)

문베보고서는 문제해결에 도움이 될 수 있는 기타 정보와 같은 중요성에 대해 설명을 포함해야 합니다.

9.2

[A, B, C] The manufacturer:

a) investigates the problem and if possible identify the causes

문제 조사는 a) ~ d)를 고려 해야 합니다.

b) evaluates the problem’s relevance to safety using the software risk management process

c) documents the outcome of the investigation and evaluation

d) creates a change request(s) for actions needed to correct the problem, or document the rationale for taking no action

9.3

[A, B, C] The manufacturer advises relevant parties of the existence of the problem, as appropriate

문제를 관련 부서에게 알려야 합니다.

9.4

[A, B, C] The manufacturer approves and implements all change requests, observing the requirements of the change control process

변경관리 프로세스의 요구사항을 준수하면서 모든 변경 요청을 승인해야 하고 구현해야 합니다.

9.5

[A, B, C] The manufacturer maintains records of problem reports and their resolution including their verification

문제보고서의 기록과 검증과 해결책을 기록 유지해야 합니다.

The manufacturer updates the risk management file as appropriate

문제가 위험관리 프로세스에 따라서 기록되어야 합니다.

9.6

[A, B, C] The manufacturer performs analysis to detect trends in problem reports

문제 보고서의 경향을 알아내기 위한 분석을 수행해야 합니다.

9.7

[A, B, C] The manufacturer verifies resolutions to determine whether:

a) problem has been resolved and the problem report has been closed

a) ~ d) 사항을 결정하기 위해서 해결책을 검증해야 합니다.

b) adverse trends have been reversed

c) change requests have been implemented in the appropriate medical device software and activities

d) additional problems have been introduced

9.8

[A, B, C] When testing, retesting or regression testing software items and systems following a change, the manufacturer includes in the test documentation:

a) test results

테스트 문서에는

a) ~ g)을 포함해야 합니다.

b) anomalies found

c) the version of software tested

d) relevant hardware and software test configurations

e) relevant test tools

f) date tested

g) identification of the tester

Attachment

Software - Mapping of required evidence and manufacturer documents

Standard Clause

Deliverables

Title

Revision #

Date

4.3

Software safety classification document

4.3

Specification of risk control measures external to software system

4.3

Rationale of classification for decomposed software system

4.4.2

Risk management activities for legacy software

4.4.3

Gap analysis for legacy software

4.4.4

Gap closure plan for legacy software

4.4.5

Rationale for use of legacy software

5.1.1

Software development plan

5.1.3

Software requirements reference to software design and development document

5.1.4

Development standards, methods and tools records for class C software

5.1.5

Software integration and integration testing plan

5.1.6

Software verification plan

5.1.7

Software risk management plan

5.1.8

Document management procedures

5.1.9

Software configuration management procedures

5.2

Software system requirements specification

5.2.3

Specification of risk control measure implemented in software

5.3

Software system architecture design specification

5.3

Software item architecture design specification

5.4

Software item detailed design specification

5.4

Software unit detailed design specification

5.5.1

Software unit implementation records

5.5.2

Software unit verification process

5.5.3

Software unit acceptance criteria

5.5.5

Software unit verification records

5.6.1

Software unit integration process

5.6.2

Software unit integration records

5.6.4

Software unit integration testing records

5.6.5

Evaluation of software unit integration test

5.6.6

Software unit regression testing process

5.6.7

Software unit regression testing records

5.6.8

Software problem resolution process

5.7

Software system testing process

5.7

Software system testing records

5.8

Software system release process

5.8

Software system release record

5.8

Statement of known residual anomalies

7.1

Software hazard analysis process

7.1

SOUP anomaly lists

7.2

Risk control process

7.3

Risk control verification process

7.4

Risk management of software change process

8.1

Configuration identification record

8.2

Change control process

8.2

Records for traceability of change

9

Software problem resolution process

9

Software problem resolution records
