queueId: ingest-1781569954387-gx9
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/04_2G & 3G (A1417MCW, A1717MCW, F1417MCW)/▶ CE MDR/230926 기술문서 & 임상평가 보완 리뷰 2 (with 컨설팅)/CE MDR TD 보완_230926/A-TCF-5-162 Vigilance System.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/44feb05543b0/A-TCF-5-162 Vigilance System__44feb05543b0_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 40df3552f8d7
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: MFDS/domestic
pilotRank: 922

SOURCE_TEXT
Contents

1. Purpose 2

2. Scope 2

3. Responsibilities and Authority 2

4. Procedure of Vigilance System 3

5. Device Recall and Advisory Notices 8

6. List of attachments 9

Purpose

The purpose of this procedure is to improve the protection of health and safety of patients, users and others by reducing the likelihood of the same type of adverse incident being repeating in different places at different times and to provide for a system and instructions. This is to be achieved by the evaluation of reported incidents and dissemination of information, which could be used to prevent such repetitions, or to alleviate the consequences of such incidents.

Scope

This procedure covers the actions to be taken once our company, Authorized representative or competent authority receives information concerning an Incident involving a Medical device according to Medical Device Regulation.

Responsibilities and Authority

3.1 President

(1) Approve Advisory Notice

(2) Approve the contract with Europe Authorized representative

(3) Approve the declaration of conformity

3.2 Quality management representative (QMR)

(1) Review Advisory Notice, contract and the declaration of conformity

3.3 Quality control manager

(1) Information correction and analysis after producing

(2) Solve the problem described in advisory notice

Procedure of Vigilance System

4.1 Definition of Vigilance System’s correspondence

(1) The Vigilance System is intended to allow data to be correlated between Competent Authorities and Manufacturers and so facilitate corrective action earlier than would be case if data were collected and action taken on a States by State basis.

(2) While we have the responsibility for taking any action necessary, Competent Authorities should also monitor the effectiveness of the Manufacturer’s follow-up on reported incidents. The Competent authority should take any further action that may be necessary to supplement the actions of the Manufacturer.

(3) Once corrective action is identified, hospital administrators, medical practitioners and other health-care professionals and user representatives responsible for the maintenance and the safety of medical devices, can take the necessary steps. Such steps should, where practicable, be taken in co-operation with the Manufacturer.

(4) Competent Authorities may also monitor experience with devices of the same kind made by different Manufacturers.

4.2 General Principles

4.2.1 For Manufacturers

(1) The Manufacturer or his Authorized representative shall notify the relevant Competent authority about incidents and field safety corrective actions when the reporting criteria are met.

(2) The Manufacturer has the responsibility for investigating incidents and for taking any corrective actions necessary.

(3) The Manufacturer should ensure that these guidelines are made known to their Authorized representatives within the EEA, Switzerland and Turkey, persons responsible for placing devices on the market and any other agents authorized to act on their behalf for purposes related to medical devices vigilance, so that the Manufacturers' responsibilities may be fulfilled.

(4) The Manufacturer should ensure that their Authorized representative within the EEA, Switzerland and Turkey, persons responsible for placing devices on the market and any other agents authorized to act on their behalf for purposes relating to medical devices vigilance, are kept informed of incident reports as appropriate.

(5) Where an incident occurs as a consequence of the combined use of two or more separate devices (and/or accessories) made by different Manufacturers, each Manufacturer should submit a report to the relevant Competent authority.

(6) Manufacturers must keep the Notified Body advised of issues occurring in the post production phase affecting the certification. This would include relevant changes derived from the vigilance system.

4.2.2 For Competent authorities

(1) The Competent authority monitors the investigation of the incident carried out by the Manufacturer.

(2) The Competent authority should take any further action that may be necessary to supplement the actions of the Manufacturer.

(3) Depending on the outcome to the investigation, any information necessary for the prevention of further incidents (or the limitation of their consequences) should be disseminated by the Competent authority.

(4) Member States should ensure that organizations and individuals involved in purchasing medical devices and in the provision of health-care are aware that their co-operation is vital in providing the first link in the vigilance chain. In order to enhance the efficiency of the medical device vigilance system, Competent authorities should encourage the reporting of incidents by the User and other professionals involved in the distribution, the delivery or putting in to service of the device. This includes organizations and individuals responsible for providing calibration and maintenance for medical devices. Such reports may be made directly to the Manufacturer or to the Competent authority as well depending on national practice.

4.2.3 For Users

(1) Users should report incidents with medical devices to the Manufacturer or to the Competent authority depending on national practice.

(2) Once corrective (or other) action is identified, hospital administrators, medical practitioners and other health-care professionals, and User representatives responsible for the maintenance and the safety of medical devices, can take the necessary steps. Such steps should, where practicable, be taken in co-operation with the Manufacturer.

4.3 Vigilance System Procedure

4.3.1. Any event which meets all three basic reporting criteria A–C listed below is considered as an incident and must be reported to the relevant Competent authority. The criteria are that:

A: An event has occurred

This also includes situations where testing performed on the device, examination of the information supplied with the device or any scientific information indicates some factor that could lead or has led to an event.

Typical events include, but are not limited to:

a) A malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics or performance. A malfunction or deterioration should be understood as a failure of a device to perform in accordance with its intended purpose when used in accordance with the Manufacturer’s instructions.

b) For IVDs where there is a risk that an erroneous result would either (1) lead to a patient management decision resulting in an imminent life-threatening situation to the individual being tested, or to the individual’s offspring, or (2) cause death or severe disability to the individual or fetus being tested, or to the individual’s offspring, all false positive or false negative test results shall be considered as events.

c) Unanticipated adverse reaction or unanticipated side effect

d) Interactions with other substances or products

e) Degradation/destruction of the device (e.g. fire)

f) Inappropriate therapy

g) An inaccuracy in the labeling, instructions for use and/or promotional materials. Inaccuracies include omissions and deficiencies. Omissions do not include the absence of information that should generally be known by the intended Users.

B: The Manufacturer’s device is suspected to be a contributory cause of the incident

In assessing the link between the device and the incident the Manufacturer should take account of:

- the opinion, based on available evidence, of healthcare professionals;

- the results of the Manufacturer 's own preliminary assessment of the incident;

- evidence of previous, similar incident s;

- other evidence held by the Manufacturer.

This judgment may be difficult when there are multiple devices and drugs involved. In complex situations, it should be assumed that the device may have caused or contributed to the incident and the M Manufacturer s should err on the side of caution.

C: The event led, or might have led, to one of the following outcomes:

- death of a patient, User or other person

- serious deterioration in state of health of a patient, User or other person.

A serious deterioration in state of health can include (non exhaustive list):

a) life-threatening illness,

b) permanent impairment of a body function or permanent damage to a body structure,

c) a condition necessitating medical or surgical intervention to prevent a) or b).

d) any indirect harm (see definition under section 4.11) as a consequence of an incorrect diagnostic or IVD test result or as a consequence of the use of an IVF/ART device when used within Manufacturer ´s instructions for use.

e) fetal distress, fetal death or any congenital abnormality or birth defects.

4.3.2 Guidelines on types of incidents to be reported in case of occurring following incidents, QMR review and determine the report considering following things and then approve to President.

(1) Incidents which need to be reported are defined in the Directives as follows:

① Those which led to a death

② Those which led to a serious deterioration in the state of health of a patient, user or other person

- Life-threatening illness or injury

- Permanent impairment of a body function or permanent damage to a body structure

- Condition necessitating medical or surgical intervention to prevent permanent impairment of a body function or permanent damage to a body structure.

③ Those which might have led to death or serious deterioration in health

- An incident associated with a device happened

- The incident was such that, if it occurred again, it might lead to death or serious deterioration in health

- Testing or examination of the device or the information supplied with the device, or any scientific literature indicated some factor (e.g., a deterioration in characteristics or performance, or a shortcoming in the information) which could lead to an incident involving death or serious deterioration in health

Not all Incidents lead to death or serious deterioration in health.

The non-occurrence of such a result might have been due to other fortunate circumstances or to the intervention of health personnel.

④ The Incident or near incident and the device or the information supplied with the device

- A malfunction or deterioration should be understood as a failure of a device to perform in accordance with its intended purpose when used in accordance with the Manufacturer's instructions. This excludes just the state of trouble not injury on body and aging of device.

- This includes problems caused by unpredicted biological effects relating to the device.

- Inaccuracy in the labeling, instructions for use

(2) Determine whether the incident is related with medical device or caused by the defection of medical device. (Refer to MEDDEV 2.12-1 rev8 Annex 1)

4.3.3 Initial report

To protect near incident, the incident having the possibility of defection with product and information must be found out. Manufacturer must report to the Competent authority as fast as possible.

(1) QMR must submit an initial incident report to the Competent authority for recording and evaluation. Reports on incidents concerning devices in Class III listed in Annex II or for self-testing and occurring in countries outside the EEA and which result in corrective action, should be made to the Competent authority in the State where the Notified Body is situated and which made the attestations which led to the CE marking being attached to the device.

(2) If applicable, notify European Sales agent or European Agent.

(3) The initial report includes following provisions

- Name, Authorized Representative’s Name, address, contact number including fax number.

- The date when the incident came to the knowledge of the Manufacturer

- Medical device kind, commercial name, catalogue number/model, serial/batch/lot number

- Identification number of the Notified Body involved in the conformity assessment procedure

- Date, Patient, Detail information including users

- Current position of product related to incident

- User’s contact number occurring incident

- Preliminary comments of Manufacturer

- Next planning or corrective action schedule

- Statements whether know about similar incident affecting current incident

- If so, any other Competent Authorities to which these incidents have been reported, and the reference/date of the report

- Any other EEA state in which the device is known to be on sale

(4) Reported incident or Product information

Consider following cases.

- Medical practitioner’s opinion basis of available evidence

- Preliminary reported conclusion of incident

- Previous or similar incident evidence

- Any other evidence having Manufacturer

- Malfunction or Quality deterioration from the function and characters of products. But quality deterioration excludes aging of products.

- Inaccuracy in the labeling, instructions for use

- Report the above things otherwise keep the file.

(5) Timescale for the initial reporting of an incident

Upon becoming aware that an event has occurred and that one of its devices may have caused or contributed to that event, the Manufacturer must determine whether it is an incident.

The following time lines apply in a case of:

- Serious public health threat: Immediately (without any delay that could not be justified) but not later than 2 calendar days after awareness by the Manufacturer of this threat.

- Death or Unanticipated serious deterioration in state of health: Immediately (without any delay that could not be justified) after the Manufacturer established a link between the device and the event but not later than 10 elapsed calendar days following the date of awareness of the event.

- Others: Immediately (without any delay that could not be justified) after the Manufacturer established a link between the device and the event but not later than 30 elapsed calendar days following the date of awareness of the event.

If after becoming aware of a potentially reportable incident there is still uncertainty about whether the event is reportable, the Manufacturer must submit a report within the timeframe required for that type of incident.

All report times refer to when the Competent authority must first be notified.

4.3.4 Investigation

(1) After initial report, Manufacturer starts to investigate generally and report to the competent authority how process. The Competent authority monitors and if necessary, investigates for itself. At that time, Manufacturer should support the Competent authority. The monitoring includes following provisions.

- Investigation’s action or method

- Process or schedule

- Result

(2) Investigation may include

- Quantity of products

- Post-market period

- Detail information of design change

(3) Need contact point about Notified body, users, the competent authority, testing institution.

(4) If the Manufacturer is not able to perform the investigation of an incident then he should inform the Competent Authority without delay.

(5) The National Competent Authority may intervene, or initiate independent investigation if appropriate. This should be in consultation with the Manufacturer where practicable.

(6) Access to the device suspected to be involved in the incident

- A Manufacturer may consult with the User on a particular incident before a report has been made to the Competent authority. The Manufacturer may also need to have access to the device suspected to have contributed to the incident for the purpose of deciding whether the incident should be reported to the Competent authority. The Manufacturer should in such cases make reasonable efforts to gain access to the device and may request support from the Competent authorities to gain access to the device so that testing can be performed as soon as possible. Any delay can result in loss of evidence rendering future analysis of the root cause impossible.

- If the Manufacturer gains access to the device, and his initial assessment (or cleaning or decontamination process) will involve altering the device in a way which may affect subsequent analysis, then the Manufacturer should inform the Competent authority before proceeding. The National Competent Authority may then consider whether to intervene. Due to the frequency of these requests, a statement introduced in the initial vigilance report should cover this requirement.

4.3.5 Actions

(1) Outcomes may include, for example

- No action

- Additional surveillance or follow-up of devices in use

- Dissemination of information to users, eg by advisory notice

- Corrective action on future production

- Corrective action on devices in use

- Recall

- Positive experience

(2) SYSTEMATIC RECALLS

The Manufacturer should issue advisory notices when implementing recalls. Copies of advisory notices should be sent to the Competent Authorities of the countries to which they are applicable, and for devices in Class III listed in Annex II, the Competent authority in the State where the Notified Body is situated and which made the attestation which led to the CE marking being attached to the device. Manufacturers should consider sending copies of advisory notices to Competent Authorities under cover of a report which takes the same structure as the Final Report.

4.3.6 Completion of investigation and file

Once takes action and complete the incident, QMR must report to The Competent Authority. The Competent authority should place the Manufacturer's final report on file and make any other observations necessary. The file may then be endorsed as "closed". The Competent authority should inform the Manufacturer when a file is "closed"

Device Recall and Advisory Notices

5.1 General

The recall of a device is the removal from the field of a marketed device that is in violation of the related regulations. Recall does not include market withdrawal or stock recovery. A recall is necessary when it has been determined that there is a risk of serious deterioration of the state of health or death. A recall includes the return of a medical device to the supplier; its modification by the supplier at the site of installation; its exchange; or its destruction. An advisory notice is issued to provide information and/or advice on what action should be taken in the use, modification, disposal or return of a medical device. Market withdrawal and stock recovery activities are not governed by this procedure. These activities pertain to the removal of distributed devices that are not in violation of current regulations, but are the result of normal stock rotation or the replacement of an old style with an improved device; and to the recovery of devices that have not been marketed or have not left the direct control of the company's premises.

5.2 Recall responsibilities

(1) The recall committee is responsible for initiating the recall and coordinating related activities. The committee includes the President, Quality Assurance Manager and Production Manager. In an emergency, and when there is no time to assemble the full committee, the President or the Quality Assurance Manager alone is authorized to initiate a recall.

(2) Possible recall situations are reported immediately to the Quality Assurance Manager. Quality Assurance analyzes the product for compliance with the specifications and/or regulatory requirements, determines the extent of the problem and reports the results to the President. When the situation warrants it, the President convenes a meeting of the recall committee.

(3) Production and Sales are responsible for organizing and conducting all recall activities. This includes the determination of the location of all suspect lots, internally and externally.

5.3 Recall

(1) The recall committee decides whether a recall is necessary and, if so, determines the following:

- The extent and nature of health hazard and recall classification;

- Proposed depth of recall;

- Type of notice to consignees, i.e., letter, fax or telephone;

- Content of notice to consignees;

- Method for verifying effectiveness of recall.

(2) When the above data is available, the proper authorities are contacted with the proposed recall plan.

5.4 Receipt of recalled devices

(1) Quality Assurance designates and prepares a quarantine area for the receipt and holding of recalled devices.

(2) Devices are logged to include the quantity returned, lot number and source of the return. This log is used to verify that all suspected devices have been located and returned. The log is reviewed regularly and the data is utilized to prepare the necessary reports.

(3) At the conclusion of the recall a decision is made regarding the disposition of the recalled devices (refer to Quality Procedure, Control of Nonconforming Product).

5.5 Issue of advisory notices

The recall committee determines the need for issuing advisory notices. The process for making this determination is similar to that which applies to recalls. All advisory notices are sent via certified mail or other traceable method.

5.6 Content of the Field Safety Notice

The FIELD SAFETY NOTICE should be written in the language(s) accepted by the

National Competent Authority(s).

Any comments and descriptions that attempt to

a) serve to play down the level of risk in an inappropriate manner,

b) advertise products or services

should be omitted.

List of attachments

No.

Contents

1

Manufacturer's Incident Report

2

Field Safety Corrective Action

3

Field Safety Notice

4

Field Safety Notice Customer Reply

5

Field Safety Notice Distributor/Importer Reply

6

Manufacturer’s Trend Report

7

Manufacturer’s Periodic Summary Report (PSR)
