queueId: ingest-1781569954418-16qz
sourcePath: raw/sources/DHF (인허가)/01_HAD1717MC, MG/05_설계개발 검증 및 유효성 확인/11_Clinical Evaluation/LITERATURE/2. Digital Radiography Image Quality.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/DHF (인허가)/_combined/564cfce9479b/2. Digital Radiography Image Quality__564cfce9479b_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 3306b305f0bb
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 257

SOURCE_TEXT
Digital Radiography Image Quality:
Image Acquisition
Mark B. Williams, PhDa
, Elizabeth A. Krupinski, PhDb
, Keith J. Strauss, MSc
,
William K. Breeden, III, MSd
, Mark S. Rzeszotarski, PhDe
,
Kimberly Applegate, MD, MSf
, Margaret Wyattg
, Sandra Bjork, RN, JDg
,
J. Anthony Seibert, PhDh
This article on digital radiography image acquisition is the first of two articles written as part of an intersociety
effort to establish image quality standards for digital and computed radiography. The topic of the other paper
is digital radiography image processing and display. The articles were developed collaboratively by the ACR, the
American Association of Physicists in Medicine, and the Society for Imaging Informatics in Medicine. Increas-
ingly, medical imaging and patient information are being managed using digital data during acquisition,
transmission, storage, display, interpretation, and consultation. Data management during each of these oper-
ations has a direct impact on the quality of patient care. These articles describe what is known to improve image
quality for digital and computed radiography and make recommendations on optimal acquisition, processing,
and display. The practice of digital radiography is a rapidly evolving technology that will require the timely
revision of any guidelines and standards. This document provides a basis for the technologies available today in
clinical practice and may be useful in guiding the future clinical practice of digital radiography.
Key Words: Digital radiography, image quality, image acquisition
J Am Coll Radiol 2007;4:371-388. Copyright © 2007 American College of Radiology
INTRODUCTION AND DEFINITIONS
Computed radiography (CR) and digital radiography (DR)
are the commonly used terms for digital radiographic
detectors. Computed radiography uses a photostimu-
lable storage phosphor that stores the latent image with
subsequent processing using a stimulating laser beam and
can be easily adapted to a cassette-based system analo-
gous to that used in screen-film (SF) radiography. His-
torically, DR has been used to describe a digital x-ray
imaging system that reads the transmitted x-ray signal
immediately after exposure with the detector in place.
There are several types of detectors that can be classified
as DR systems, including automated (cassetteless) CR
systems. In addition, some DR systems are adapted to a
cassette-based x-ray system. Thus, the historical nomen-
clature becomes less accurate as technology advances be-
cause distinct classification into the two broad categories
of CR and DR is no longer possible. More appropriate is
the distinction based on cassette vs cassetteless operation.
In this article, digital radiography is used to refer to all
types of digital radiographic systems, including both
those historically termed CR and those historically
termed DR.
There are many ways to categorize the current state-
of-the-art digital radiography technology. One categori-
zation considers (1) form factor, (2) image acquisition
time, and (3) x-ray signal conversion methodology. The
concept of cassette-based vs cassetteless operation is de-
fined using the term form factor. A cassette-based digital
detector uses the SF paradigm, which allows the use of
existing imaging modality infrastructure and provides
excellent positioning flexibility. On the other hand, the
labor-intensive handling of cassettes and the need to wait
for the image, often with batch-mode processing, leads to
a loss of time efficiency. Cassetteless operation indicates
the ability to acquire the x-ray signal and, without sub-
sequent user intervention, produce an image at a local
a Department of Radiology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.
b Department of Radiology, University of Arizona, Tucson, Ariz.
c Department of Radiology, Children’s Hospital, Harvard University, Boston,
Mass.
d St. Vincent Hospital, Indianapolis, Ind.
e Department of Radiology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland,
Ohio.
f Department of Radiology, Indiana University, Indianapolis, Ind.
g American College of Radiology, Reston, Va.
h Department of Radiology, University of California, Davis, Sacramento,
Calif.
Corresponding author and reprints: J. Anthony Seibert, PhD, University of
California, Davis, Department of Radiology, 4860 Y Street, Suite 3100, Sac-
ramento, CA 95817; e-mail: jaseibert@ucdavis.edu.
© 2007 American College of Radiology
0091-2182/07/$32.00 ● DOI 10.1016/j.jacr.2007.02.002
371

workstation for review and manipulation. By image ac-
quisition time, a distinction is made regarding the ability
to acquire an image nearly instantaneously over the full
field of view for a large area detector vs the sequential,
longer scan time acquisition of a slot-scan device. X-ray
signal conversion refers to the method by which the x-rays
are converted to the output signal of interest and is usu-
ally described as being either an indirect or direct radia-
tion detection scheme. All digital detectors produce an
output signal, usually in the form of electrons, which
represent a quantity of charge that corresponds to the
number of x-rays absorbed in a given detector element
(del) in the detector. The charge is then converted to a
digital value for storage in the image matrix. Indirect
refers to the conversion of x-rays into secondary informa-
tion carriers, such as light via a scintillator, before con-
version to charge. Direct refers to the conversion of x-rays
into electron-hole pairs and the direct collection of
charge using semiconductors as the x-ray converter, with-
out a secondary conversion event. There are advantages
and disadvantages that can be ascribed to each of the
digital detectors in these broad categories, and they de-
termine the best solution for a given clinical task or
imaging application.
This article is applicable to the practice of cassette-
based and cassetteless digital radiography. It defines mo-
tivations, equipment guidelines, specifications of data
manipulation and management, and quality control and
quality improvement procedures for the use of digital
radiography that should result in high quality radiologic
patient care. It also includes a brief review of the differ-
ences between digital radiography and SF radiography in
terms of imaging characteristics such as sensitivity, dy-
namic range, noise, and spatial resolution. A brief over-
view of current receptor technologies available for the
clinical practice of digital radiography also is included. A
glossary of commonly used terminology is included in
the companion paper on image processing and display.
Motivations for using digital radiography in clinical
practice include, but are not limited to:
1. the significantly larger range of x-ray intensities that
can be imaged by digital receptors compared with
analog systems;
2. the independence of displayed contrast from the
x-ray tube potential setting (kVp) through adjust-
ment of the display window width;
3. the independence of displayed brightness from mil-
liampere-second (mAs) setting through adjustment
of the display window level;
4. the availability of image processing and computer-
aided diagnostic algorithms for image enhancement
and analysis;
5. the easier and more reliable generation of accurately
labeled and identified image data;
6. the ability to electronically transmit data to an ap-
propriate storage medium from which it can be elec-
tronically retrieved for display for formal interpreta-
tion, review, and consultation; and
7. the ability to transmit data to and from remote sites
for consultation, review, or formal interpretation.
Components of the performance of high-quality digi-
tal radiography include, but are not limited to:
1. the development of validated imaging protocols so
that the consistency of image quality and radiation
dose can be established and maintained between
rooms and between sites;
2. the use of appropriate compression of image data to
facilitate transmission or storage, without loss of
clinically significant information;
3. the archiving of data to maintain accurate patient
medical records in a form that may be retrieved in a
timely fashion;
4. the ability to retrieve data from available prior imag-
ing studies to be displayed for comparison with a
current study;
5. the ability to apply image processing for better dis-
play of acquired information;
6. adherence to applicable facility, state, and federal
regulations;
7. maintenance of patient confidentiality;
8. minimization of the occurrence of poor image qual-
ity;
9. minimization of the delivery of inappropriate ioniz-
ing radiation dose to patients; and
10. the promotion of clinical efficiency and continuous
quality improvement.
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Image acquisition should be performed in accordance
with the appropriate ACR modality or examination
guideline or standard. At the time of acquisition, the
system must have capabilities for capturing demographic
as well as imaging information such as accession number,
patient name, identification number, date and time of
examination, name of facility or institution of acquisi-
tion, type of examination, patient or anatomic part ori-
entation (eg, right, left, superior, inferior), amount and
method of data compression, and display of the total
number of images acquired in the study. This informa-
tion (except for the number of images acquired) must be
associated with the images when transmitted. These
fields should be formatted according to the Digital Im-
aging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM)
standard.
372 Journal of the American College of Radiology/ Vol. 4 No. 6 June 2007

The ability to record patient date of birth and gender
and a brief patient history is recommended. The ability
to record peak kilovoltage (kVp), tube current (mA),
exposure time, beam filtration, and radiation exposure
indicator is imperative, particularly for cassette and cas-
setteless digital radiography systems that have a direct
interface to the x-ray generator information. The use of
the DICOM DX object is recommended instead of the
more limited CR object for digital radiography. It is also
recommended that gray-scale presentation state objects
be used to transmit annotations, shutter, and display
lookup tables (LUTs).
COMPARISON OF SCREEN-FILM AND
DIGITAL RECEPTORS
There are several fundamental differences between SF
systems and digital (CR or DR) systems in terms of the
physical processes involved in image acquisition. The
different processes introduce different constraints on the
factors determining image quality, such as spatial resolu-
tion, contrast, and noise. Here we briefly describe the
basic operation of each system and then discuss the most
important acquisition-related factors affecting image
quality for each.
Screen-Film
In SF radiography, an x-ray photon absorbed in the
screen deposits energy, which is converted into the pro-
duction of multiple visible light photons that travel
through the screen and in turn deposit energy in the film
grains in the emulsion layers of the film. The image
information is stored in the film emulsion during an
exposure through the accumulation of exposed grains.
Regions of the film with a greater density of exposed
grains have higher optical density and appear dark after
film processing and thus correspond to regions of greater
x-ray absorption in the screen. However, the relationship
between optical density and the number of absorbed
x-rays is nonlinear. For analog SF radiography, the acqui-
sition, display, and storage of the image are intrinsically
nonseparable. This means that acquisition techniques
must be used that result in both acceptable film darken-
ing while maximizing image contrast. Because the range
of acceptable optical density is limited by view box lumi-
nance and the response of the human visual system, max-
imization of image contrast occurs at the expense of ex-
posure dynamic range. This is referred to as the exposure
latitude, and it is quite narrow in SF radiography com-
pared with digital radiography.
Limitations in SF radiography include narrow expo-
sure latitude, the need for chemical processing, ineffi-
cient mechanical handling, incompatibility with elec-
tronic transmission and image enhancement, and higher
costs for film materials and labor. The chief advantages
are high spatial resolution, consistency of image appear-
ance, and the accumulated experience of radiologists,
medical physicists, and technologists in utilizing SF ra-
diography in an optimal manner.
Screen-film images can be converted to a digital form
using a film digitizer to produce an equivalent digital
image. The characteristics of the output digitized image
are chiefly those of the SF image, with its inherent ad-
vantages and disadvantages as listed above. Two major
digitizer types are based on laser point scanning and
optical line transmission scanning, using a light collec-
tion guide or an array of charge-coupled device (CCD)
photosensors, respectively [1]. In general, these digitizers
provide good gray-scale rendition, with the laser systems
typically having more accurate conversion of high optical
density values and the CCD array scanners able to have a
more compact, higher resolution scanner capability.
Film digitizers should output the DICOM radiographic
imaging information object descriptor with patient and
acquisition method demographic data and must meet the
minimum spatial frequency resolution requirements of
2.5 lp/mm at the film plane for conventional digital
radiography images. In general, film digitizers introduce
additional noise in the digital image, especially in regions
of high optical density.
Computed Radiography
In photostimulable storage phosphor (CR) systems, x-
ray photons are absorbed in the storage phosphor, also
known as the imaging plate (IP). Unlike conventional
screens, the deposition of x-ray energy in storage phos-
phors results in the storage of a portion of the energy in
highly localized, metastable areas called f-centers, which
serve as energy wells. During an x-ray exposure, the im-
age is built up in the phosphor through the accumulation
of f-centers. After the exposure, plate readers scan a (red)
laser beam over the surface of the IP. In one implemen-
tation the laser beam sweeps across the IP (scan direction)
and in combination with IP translation (subscan direc-
tion) the beam extracts the latent image from the IP. The
plate reading time depends on the size of the detector and
the scan speed of the reader. Some newer readers use a
line-scan approach (the laser illumination on the plate is
a line) rather than a point-scan approach to increase
readout speed, but the principle is the same in both
approaches. At each location, the energy of the incident
laser photons triggers a deexcitation of the f-centers, re-
sulting in the prompt emission of (indigo) light photons.
A portion of these photons is detected by a photosensitive
device (usually a photomultiplier tube for point-scan
readers or a linear solid-state photodiode array for line-
scan readers), whose output is then digitized and stored.
Although the amount of photostimulated light detected
Williams et al/Image Acquisition 373

is proportional to the number of f-centers and thus to the
number of absorbed x-rays at that location (ie, the rela-
tionship between the photomultiplier tube signal and the
number of absorbed x-rays is linear), nonlinear amplifi-
cation of the photomultiplier tube signal before digitiza-
tion is often used. The resulting raw pixel values are
subsequently processed for display using a combination
of segmentation, rescaling, and filtering algorithms. The
size of the image matrix is a function of the IP dimensions
(18  24 cm, 24  30 cm, 35  35 cm, 35  43 cm, and
custom sizes) and the pixel sampling pitch (typically 100
to 200
m in general radiography). Output image sizes
vary between 8 and 16 MB for radiography with a typical
matrix size of approximately 2,000  2,500 pixels. A
detailed description of technical issues associated with
CR imaging is given in the report of American Associa-
tion of Physicists in Medicine Task Group 10 [2].
DR Systems
DR systems encompass a number of different technolo-
gies that are rapidly evolving. At this time, the majority of
DR systems use thin-film transistor (TFT) arrays, com-
monly known as flat-panel arrays. Systems based on
CCDs are available for general-purpose and chest radi-
ography, using scanned, slot-shaped detectors [3-5]; a
single CCD; or tiled arrays of CCDs optically coupled to
larger area x-ray-to-light converters. Thin-film transistor
arrays are composed of a matrix of discrete dels, each of
which contains a transistor. The transistors operate as
gates, permitting an electric charge to flow through them
only when they are turned on. During an x-ray exposure,
the gates are turned off, and the image is built up in the
dels in the form of an electric charge, with the amount of
charge in each del proportional to the number of x-rays
absorbed in that region of the detector (again, a linear
relationship). The means by which x-ray energy is con-
verted to a stored electrical charge varies somewhat be-
tween manufacturers but can be broadly classified ac-
cording to whether it involves an intermediate
conversion of x-ray energy to visible photons (indirect
flat-panel devices) or not (direct flat-panel devices). In an
indirect device, an x-ray-to-light converter, similar to
that used in SF imaging, is placed in contact with the
TFT array. Each del of the TFT array contains a light
sensor (a photodiode) to convert the fluorescent light to a
stored electric charge. In a direct device, a layer of mate-
rial is deposited directly onto the TFT array. When an
x-ray photon is absorbed in this photoconductor mate-
rial, an electric charge is generated and collected in the
dels of the TFT array. For both indirect and direct flat-

panel detectors, after the x-ray exposure, the TFT array
gates are turned on one row at a time, and the amount of
charge stored in each del of that row is transferred
through drain lines to a row of charge amplifiers at the
edge of the array for digitization and storage. The entire
detector is read out by successively turning on all of the
rows in a sequential fashion and storing the digital data in
corresponding locations in the output digital image ma-
trix.
Advantages and Limitations of Digital
Radiography
The main limitations of CR and DR are higher initial
cost (especially for DR), a lack of familiarity on the part
of both radiologists and technologists with electronic
image display and with online soft copy reading (com-
pared with alternator-based batch-mode reading), and
the lack of consistent feedback to technologists concern-
ing the use of optimal acquisition techniques. The latter
problem, along with the much larger dynamic range of
digital systems, has led to a gradual increase in patient
radiation dose, an issue discussed in more detail below
[6-8]. The advantages of CR and DR include the separa-
tion of acquisition, display, and archiving, allowing tre-
mendous flexibility using image-processing functions
such as those that adjust the level (analogous to the
brightness) and window width (analogous to the con-
trast) of the image gray-scale presentation. However, dis-
play contrast is limited by the inherent image signal-to-
noise ratio (SNR), because as the signal contrast is
increased, so is the visibility of noise. Other advantages
include: anatomy-specific presentation and disease-spe-
cific algorithms; in most cases better x-ray detection effi-
ciency and higher detective quantum efficiency (DQE),
permitting lower doses to patients; the ability to use a
second computer reader to assist the radiologist; a reduc-
tion in the number of image retakes due to underexpo-
sure or overexposure; and the elimination of labor-inten-
sive handling and distribution of images during the
acquisition process.
FACTORS AFFECTING IMAGE QUALITY
Just as with SF radiography, a number of factors affect
the quality of the image in digital radiography. Contrast,
detail, and noise are the primary factors associated with
image quality, and they play a major role in CR and DR.
Some additional factors are the result of the digital nature
of the process, and they are discussed below.
Detection Efficiency
For SF, CR, and DR, the efficiency with which incident
x-rays are absorbed is determined by the absorber thick-
ness, density, and composition. Efficiency can be in-
creased by increasing material density or absorber thick-
ness (usually at the expense of spatial resolution) or
through the incorporation of materials having atomic
numbers that provide a good match between the x-ray
374 Journal of the American College of Radiology/ Vol. 4 No. 6 June 2007

spectrum exiting the patient and the absorption charac-
teristics of the material. Figure 1 shows the absorption
efficiency of 3 materials commonly used as x-ray scintil-
lators, plotted against incident x-ray energy [2].
Dynamic Range
In digital chest radiography, the ratio of the maximum to
minimum x-ray exposures incident on the detector sur-
face can be greater than 100:1 [9]. For high-quality dig-
ital radiography, the receptor must be able to maintain
good contrast resolution over this wide dynamic range.
The dynamic range of an x-ray imaging system is the
ratio of the largest and smallest input x-ray intensities
that can be imaged. For all systems, the smallest useful
intensity is determined by the intrinsic system noise. The
signal must be large enough to exceed this noise, com-
bined with the x-ray quantum noise. The largest intensity
is determined by receptor saturation. The dynamic range
of SF systems, often referred to as the latitude, is deter-
mined by the loss of contrast at low and high exposure
levels (the toe and shoulder, respectively, of the H&D
curve). For SF systems, the useful dynamic range is de-
pendent on the screen and film characteristics, ranging
from approximately 10:1 to 100:1 [10]. By comparison,
the response curve of CR is linear (the photostimulated
light output is directly proportional to x-ray exposure)
over approximately 4 orders of magnitude (a ratio of
10,000:1) [2]. Figure 2 compares the response curves for
a 400-speed SF system with that of a typical CR system
[2]. The dynamic range of DR systems is determined at
the low end by the system noise and at the high end by
the charge-holding capacity of the dels. When this capac-
ity is filled, the detector must be read out to remove the
charge before any subsequent exposure. The dynamic
range of typical TFT arrays used in general radiography,
with del sizes of 150 to 200
m, is approximately 3 to 4
orders of magnitude (a ratio of 1,000:1 to 10,000:1) [11].
Spatial Sampling
All digital detectors sample the continuously varying x-
ray fluence at their input at discrete locations separated
by some interval called the sampling pitch. In CR sys-
tems, the sampling pitch is the distance between adjacent
laser beam positions during plate readout. In DR sys-
tems, the pitch is the center-to-center spacing between
dels. The spatial frequency at which sampling occurs
determines how well high-frequency fluctuations in x-ray
fluence (those that occur over short distances in the im-
aging plane) are imaged by the digital system. The sam-
pling frequency of a system with sampling pitch p is 1/p.
For example, if the pitch is 100
m (0.1 mm), the sam-
pling frequency is 10 per millimeter (10 mm1
). The
highest spatial frequency in the incident x-ray fluence
that can be reliably imaged (the Nyquist frequency) is
half the sampling frequency, or 1/(2p). Thus, a system
with 100-
m pitch can image frequencies up to 5 cycles
per millimeter. If the x-ray fluence incident on the recep-
tor contains information at frequencies higher than the
Nyquist frequency, and the presampling modulation
Fig 1. The photon absorption fractions for computed
radiography and rare-earth x-ray phosphors are plot-
ted as a function of energy. Phosphor thicknesses are
representative of a standard 400-speed conventional
screen, a standard resolution computed radiography
phosphor detector (100 mg/cm 2 ), and a cesium io-
dide phosphor commonly used in indirect thin-film
transistor array and optically coupled charge-coupled
device camera digital radiography systems [2].
Fig 2. The characteristic response of a 400-speed
rare-earth screen-film (solid S-shaped curve) and the
computed radiography photostimulable phosphor
(PSP) detector (dashed curve) are compared. Expo-
sure ranges indicated by double arrows roughly indi-
cate the exposure ranges characterized as underex-
posed, correct, or overexposed. Useless areas depict
system responses that do not contain information
useful for diagnosis because of either excessive
quantum noise at the low-dose end of the scale or
saturation of the PSP detector [2].
Williams et al/Image Acquisition 375

transfer function (MTF) is nonvanishing at these fre-
quencies, the result is false image signals occurring at low
frequencies. This phenomenon, called aliasing, produces
large-scale artifacts in images and reduces the ability to
see fine details in the images.
Spatial Resolution
Spatial resolution is the ability of an imaging system to
allow two adjacent structures to be visualized as being
separate, or the distinctness of an edge in the image (ie,
sharpness). Spatial resolution losses occur because of
blurring caused by geometric factors (eg, the size of the
x-ray tube focal spot, light diffusion in the receptor), del
effective aperture size, and motion of the patient relative
to the x-ray source and image receptor. The measure-
ment of spatial resolution is performed by subjective or
objective methods. Subjective measurement is achieved
with a bar pattern of alternating radio-opaque bars and
radiolucent spaces of equal width, imaged to determine
the limiting resolution in line pairs per unit of distance,
usually expressed in units of line pairs per millimeter.
Intrinsic detector resolution measurements are per-
formed by fixing the bar pattern to the receptor surface to
eliminate focal spot blurring. System resolution (includ-
ing the effects of the focal spot blur) uses a bar pattern
placed at a clinically relevant distance above the receptor.
For digital systems, the resolution may be different in the
row and column directions, often requiring separate eval-
uations. The limiting resolution is the frequency at which
the bars and spaces can no longer be visualized. Objective
measurements by the MTF are obtained by measuring
the transfer of signal amplitude (contrast) of sinusoidal
patterns (of various frequencies) from incident x-rays to
the output. The system MTF is determined by the prod-
uct of the individual MTF components along the signal
chain. The system MTF can be measured by imaging a
test object containing a narrow slit or a sharp edge. For
most digital radiography examinations (except possibly
digital fluoroscopy), a limiting system spatial resolution
of at least 2.5 mm1 is essential and higher resolution
(e.g. 5.0 mm1
) is desirable for specialized applications.
In SF imaging, spatial resolution is determined pri-
marily by the thickness of the screen, because the light
produced when an x-ray photon is absorbed is emitted in
all directions from that point. Thicker screens provide
more distance for the light to spread before reaching the
film and have poorer spatial resolution. The film has very
high resolution and is not responsible for spatial resolu-
tion degradation. A conventional 400-speed SF system
for general radiography has a spatial resolution limit (the
smallest visible set of bars in a bar pattern image) of
approximately 7 lp/mm (7 mm1
). In mammography,
in which very thin screens are used, the limiting resolu-
tion is often greater than 15 mm1
.
In CR imaging, the primary source of spatial resolu-
tion loss is scattering of the laser light beam during image
plate readout. Laser light scatter results in the deexcita-
tion of locations in the phosphor that are somewhat
larger than the size of the laser beam and potentially
larger than the separation between laser positions. As a
result, the actual blur extends beyond the pixel size. Be-
cause thicker phosphors result in a greater scattering
depth and more blur, CR systems have been introduced
that permit the plate to be read from both sides [12].
Also, CR systems with a structured crystalline geometry
allow a greater thickness and enhanced detection efficiency
without the corresponding loss of spatial resolution [13].
Spatial resolution in DR systems depends primarily on
two factors. The first factor for indirect systems is the
spread of light photons in the x-ray-to-light conversion
process, and this can be important. This results in blur-
ring similar to that described above because of the spread
of photons within the screen of an SF system. To mini-
mize visible photon spread, several manufacturers of in-
direct DR systems use structured converters, in which the
converter material (usually cesium iodide) is formed into
narrow, parallel columnar structures, oriented so that the
x-ray photons are incident along the long dimension of
the columns. The advantage of this structure is that the
majority of the light exiting the converter onto the TFT
array has been internally reflected along the length of the
columns. The internal reflection process thus confines
the light photons to a region close to the actual location
of the x-ray absorption. This approach permits improved
absorption efficiency through thicker absorbers (longer
columns) without as much spatial resolution degradation
as seen in unstructured converters constructed using the
same thickness. Direct-conversion DR systems do not
suffer from this effect, because the spread of the electrons
within the photoconductor material as they are acceler-
ated toward the TFT array is minimal.
The second factor affecting spatial resolution in DR is
the size of the del itself. Because all x-rays absorbed
within a single del during an exposure contribute to a
single quantity (the summed charge read from that del),
there is no way to distinguish different absorption loca-
tions within a del. Therefore, structures in the patient
smaller than the del size are smeared out, and their con-
trast is reduced (this is known as the partial volume
effect). Such structures may thus be undetectable unless
they are inherently high contrast objects (eg, a microcal-
cification smaller than a del may be recognized as a cal-
cification because its attenuation properties are so differ-
ent from the other tissue in the del).
Noise
In radiography, noise can be defined as any fluctuations
in an image that do not correspond to variations in the
376 Journal of the American College of Radiology/ Vol. 4 No. 6 June 2007

x-ray attenuation of the object being imaged. Image noise
is typically measured by illuminating the receptor with a
uniform x-ray fluence, then measuring the variance (the
square of the standard deviation) in selected regions of
the resulting image. A more informative measure of noise
can be obtained by estimating the noise power spectrum
(NPS), which characterizes the spatial frequency depen-
dence of the noise [14-16]. Knowledge of the frequency
response of noise in an imaging system is important be-
cause there are a number of additional noise sources in
digital radiography, such as aliasing and electronic noise,
that are not present in SF systems.
Ideally, image noise is dominated by the x-ray quan-
tum noise. However, all image receptors contain some
internal sources of noise. Random noise (noise not cor-
related with particular locations on the receptor) typi-
cally cannot be corrected and adds to the random noise of
the x-ray quanta. Examples of random noise include film
granularity noise in SF and electronic noise in CR and
DR. Internal noise that has a fixed correlation to loca-
tions on the receptor is called fixed-pattern noise. Sources
of fixed-pattern noise include spatial variation in screen
thickness in SF, position-dependent light collection effi-
ciency in CR plate readers, and variations among pream-
plifier gains in DR. One advantage of digital imaging is
that fixed-pattern noise can be largely eliminated
through digital postprocessing. This is typically per-
formed by obtaining a set of nominally identical images
using a uniform x-ray flood field. Averaging the flood
images results in a single image in which the magnitude
of the random noise is small compared with the magni-
tude of the fixed-pattern noise. This image is stored and
used as a map to remove the fixed-pattern noise from all
subsequent images in a process called flat fielding. Detec-
tor artifacts are common in digital systems as a result of
spatial variations in the sensitivity of the receptor, caus-
ing the image to have structure that is unrelated to the
tissue being imaged. Bad dels, typically aligned in col-
umns and rows, may occur during the manufacturing
process. The locations of such point and line defects are
typically identified and stored, and adjacent neighbor
response values are averaged and used as substitute values
for the missing data. The number and proximity of de-
tector defects that is allowable without affecting image
quality remains to be specified.
Digitization of the analog detector output voltage to
form discrete pixel values introduces a type of noise called
quantization noise. Digital imaging systems use an ana-
log-to-digital converter to sample and quantize the image
data into discrete integer (gray-scale) values, with the
range of values determined by the number of electronic
binary (on/off) channels within the ADC, also known as
bits. The maximum number of gray-scale values that can
be encoded is equal to 2 #
, where # is the number of bits.
For example, an 8-bit analog-to-digital converter en-
codes 2 8 or 256 discrete digital values (0-255) over the
signal amplitude range (these values are often called an-
alog-to-digital units). An insufficient number of quanti-
zation steps will introduce signal-encoding errors that
increase the quantization noise. Digital detectors for pro-
jection radiography typically use from 10 to 14 bits
(1,024 to 16,384 unique analog-to-digital units) in the
output image to keep quantization noise small. Some
systems use nonlinear (eg, logarithmic) amplification be-
fore digitization, which can further reduce the quantiza-
tion error, particularly in the low output signal response
range of the detector [17].
Scatter radiation is another source of image degrada-
tion in radiography, and it acts in the same manner as
other noise sources. Scatter reduces the available dynamic
range of x-ray intensities at the exit side of the patient.
The primary effect of scatter is the reduction of subject
contrast. In addition to reducing subject contrast, scatter
decreases the SNR because it contains no signal but does
contain Poisson quantum noise. Scanned slot DR detec-
tors possess inherent scatter rejection capability and do
not require the use of a grid. Area detectors used in CR,
DR, and SF radiography should be used with an antiscat-
ter grid in clinical imaging situations in which scatter
dominates (usually patient thicknesses in excess of 10
cm). They are often not used with pediatric and extrem-
ity imaging. The use of grids is especially important in
CR because of the increased scatter sensitivity of barium
halide (k-edge approximately 35 keV) compared with SF
screens such as gadolinium oxysulfide (k-edge approxi-
mately 50 keV) (see Figure 1). When using stationary
grids (eg, snap-on grids used in portable x-ray and for
lateral tabletop exposures), consider the use of high-fre-
quency grid strips of greater than 60 lines/cm (140 lines/

in) to avoid grid aliasing patterns caused by insufficient
sampling. Consultation with the vendor for an appropri-
ate grid is recommended.
When using scatter grids with digital detectors, any
adjustment in exposure technique (mAs) should be made
in the interest of maintaining SNR. Insertion of the grid
reduces both the signal (incomplete transmission of the
primary radiation by the grid) and noise (removal of
scattered radiation), with the relative amount of reduc-
tion dependent on both the scatter-to-primary ratio in
the beam (higher for larger patients) and the design of the
grid. This is different than in SF radiography, in which
upward mAs compensation is required both for the re-
moval of primary and scattered radiation to achieve the
correct film optical density range. For this reason, the
adjustment of radiographic technique upward according
to the Bucky factor (defined as the increase in exposure
required to obtain the same optical density as with no
Williams et al/Image Acquisition 377

grid) overestimates the appropriate technique increase
for digital receptors.
Contrast
Contrast (radiographic contrast) is proportional to the
magnitude of the signal difference between the struc-
ture of interest and its surroundings in the displayed
image, which is expressed in terms of the optical den-
sity difference between two adjacent areas on the SF
film or as the relative brightness difference between
the corresponding areas in a digital image displayed on
a monitor. For both SF and digital imaging, radio-
graphic contrast is influenced by subject contrast and
receptor sensitivity. However, in digital imaging, con-
trast in the displayed image can also be altered by the
adjustment of display parameters independent of the
acquisition parameters. Subject contrast is propor-
tional to the relative difference in x-ray exposure on
the exit side of the patient and is the result of the
attenuating properties of the tissues under study. At-
tenuation is strongly dependent on the x-ray energy
spectrum and is determined by the target material,
kilovoltage, and total beam filtration. Subject contrast
is further reduced by the presence of scatter. Receptor
sensitivity is defined as the amount by which the out-
put (optical density for SF or analog-to-digital unit
value for CR and DR) changes per unit change in
exposure to the receptor. In digital detector design,
sensitivity can, to a certain extent, be selected through
electronic gain settings, but this must be done with an
awareness of the range of exposures that must be si-
multaneously measured, taking into account the de-
tector response energy dependence. With a properly
designed image acquisition system, the dynamic range
should be adequate to measure the entire range of
intensities from that of the unattenuated beam outside
the patient to that through the densest, thickest part of
the anatomy. The signal stored in digital form is di-
rectly (or logarithmically) proportional to the amount
of radiation transmitted through the patient. For this
reason, the stored for-processing image reflects the
inherent subject contrast very faithfully, provided the
image receptor is operated in the linear (or log-linear)
portion of its response curve.
For CR and DR, image processing (usually proprietary
to the device’s manufacturer and not under control of the
radiologist) is used to determine display contrast by es-
tablishing the relationship between raw pixel values and
gray-scale levels. This produces the final for-presentation
image for interpretation either on hard-copy film or soft-
copy displays. Discussion of image processing, including
contrast enhancement and spatial frequency processing,
is presented in the companion paper on image processing
and display.
Detective Quantum Efficiency
The DQE is a useful descriptor of image receptor perfor-
mance because it takes into account detection efficiency,
spatial resolution, and noise. The DQE describes the
relative efficiency in maintaining the signal-to-noise level
available in the imaging process and is defined as
SNR2
out/SNR 2
in, where SNR 2
in is the SNR of the expo-
sure incident on the receptor, numerically equal to the
input fluence. SNR out is the ratio of the relative magni-
tudes of the image signal to the noise. Thus, DQE can be
considered the system’s SNR transfer efficiency. Efficient
SNR transfer is important because the detection perfor-
mance of both human and ideal observers improves with
increasing SNR [18-22].
The DQE is generally plotted against spatial fre-
quency, DQE( f ). A perfect system has a DQE( f ) of
unity at all spatial frequencies. Real systems lose effi-
ciency at higher spatial frequencies because of decreasing
spatial resolution and increasing noise sources. DQE( f )
is determined by quantitative measurements of the mod-
ulation transfer function, MTF( f ), to determine the
spatial resolution and the noise power spectrum,
NPS( f ), to determine the noise characteristics, both as a
function of spatial frequency, using an accurately known
Fig 3. Detective quantum efficiencies of screen-film,
general-purpose computed radiography (GP-CR),
high-resolution computed radiography (HR-CR), and
selenium-based digital radiography (DR) systems.
The detective quantum efficiencies (DQEs) were mea-
sured using 4 different standardized radiation quality
beam qualities, with higher radiation quality (RQA)
number corresponding to higher average beam en-
ergy [23].
378 Journal of the American College of Radiology/ Vol. 4 No. 6 June 2007

input exposure to the detector. The exposure required to
achieve a given SNR in the image is inversely related to
the system DQE. Therefore, systems with higher DQE
require less exposure for a given image quality (SNR)
than systems with lower DQE. The DQE is important in
CR and DR because these technologies can offer signifi-
cantly improved DQE compared with SF systems. How-
ever, it is important to remember that the DQE is an
energy-dependent quantity. Figure 3 compares the DQE
of a general-purpose radiographic SF system with those
of a general-purpose CR system, a high-resolution CR
system, and a DR system. Plots are shown for 4 different
standardized radiation quality x-ray beams, with the
higher radiation quality number corresponding to higher
beam energy. Figure 3 demonstrates that the DQEs of
the CR and DR systems decrease compared with that of
SF with increasing beam energy. As pointed out by the
study authors, this suggests that automatically increasing
the beam energy when switching from SF to digital radi-
ography may not always be the most appropriate course
of action [23].
DOSE CREEP IN DIGITAL RADIOGRAPHY
AND ITS PREVENTION
Film-based imaging provides immediate feedback to tech-
nologists and radiologists concerning the delivery of the
proper radiation exposure to patients. If the optical densities
in the film image are too great, the patient received too
much radiation, whereas reduced optical densities indicated
a reduced radiation exposure relative to the proper value.
When digital image receptors replace SF image receptors,
the brightness and contrast in the displayed image on the
monitor are independent of the exposure used during acqui-
sition. Only the noise in the image changes with the expo-
sure. Radiologists react negatively to digital images with
excessive noise (low patient exposure) but rarely complain
about images with reduced noise due to excessive patient
exposures. Technologists quickly recognize this and gradu-
ally increase patient doses by adjusting radiographic tech-
niques upward. This leads to the potential for dose creep in
CR and DR [6-8]. The medical physicist and/or imaging
specialist should monitor for dose creep on a consistent,
ongoing basis, because it is a recurring phenomenon. One
effective way to eliminate dose creep is to develop validated
radiographic technique charts for all performed examina-
tions as a function of patient size. If these factors are entered
into the anatomic programming of state-of-the-art x-ray
generator controls, the technologists simply select the radio-
logic examination and patient size at the beginning of the
case and are assured of the use of standard radiographic
technique factors and standard radiation exposure regardless of
whether the examination is conducted with the image receptor
on the table top with manual techniques or in the Bucky tray
using the automatic exposure control (AEC) [24].
EXPOSURE INDICATORS FOR DIGITAL
RADIOGRAPHY
Currently, most CR manufacturers provide exposure indi-
cators on images displayed on the image reader workstation.
However, this information may not be transferred over to
the picture archiving and communication system (PACS)
or may appear buried in the DICOM information page of
the patient. Most PACS have the ability to display the ex-
posure indicator on the image. Check with your PACS
vendor and insist that this information be displayed on each
image. Today, the various numerical exposure indicators
used by different CR manufacturers are not easily compara-
ble. To compound the problem further, some DR manu-
facturers do not provide an exposure indicator on their pro-
cessed images, or the information is not transferred to the
PACS and is not recoverable.
The American Association of Physicists in Medicine
formed Task Group 116 to address the lack of a uniform
exposure indicator on digital radiography images. Their re-
port, “Recommended Exposure Indicator for Digital Radi-
ography,” will propose standardized radiation exposure
conditions from which a relative exposure indicator can be
defined. Because the major manufacturers of digital radio-
graphic image receptors participated in the task group, this
standardized exposure indicator should migrate into their
future products. See exposure value estimate in the glossary in
the companion paper on image processing and display,
which summarizes several of the exposure indices currently
used by different manufacturers.
PEDIATRIC IMAGING ISSUES
As with all pediatric imaging examinations involving ion-
izing radiation, CR and DR should be performed using
the lowest possible radiation exposure to the patient (as
low as reasonably achievable [ALARA]), because pediat-
ric patients are believed to be up to 10 times more sensi-
tive to ionizing radiation than adults [25]. This suggests
that the exposure delivered to the digital image receptor
should be approximately 0.4 to 0.8 mR for chest and
abdominal examinations [26]. However, it should be
noted that adopting a policy of reduced exposure levels to
the image receptor to achieve ALARA in pediatric imag-
ing increases the possibility of unacceptably high quan-
tum noise and thus reduces the margin for error in the
selection of the parameters that affect the beam quality.
Also, the achievable reduction in exposure at the plate is
dependent on how well the digital system is optimized
for pediatric imaging and on the nature of the particular
disease being diagnosed [27].
Commitment and effort on the part of staff members
is required to achieve ALARA in pediatric imaging. First,
the multiple x-ray machines of a given type in a depart-
ment require validation, calibration, and matching to
Williams et al/Image Acquisition 379

ensure the same exposure for similar radiographic tech-
nique parameters. The actual exposure required to pro-
duce clinically acceptable images for a given digital recep-
tor is a function of the digital receptor’s DQE. The goal
is to produce similar image quality in all images regard-
less of the device chosen and regardless of the size of the
pediatric patient. Second, all CR readers or DR image
receptors should be adjusted to provide a uniform re-
sponse to the recorded x-ray image pattern in space.
Third, all monitors on all diagnostic display workstations
should be tested and calibrated to provide a uniform
appearance of displayed images. These topics are ad-
dressed in more detail elsewhere [28].
Pediatric patients provide unique challenges when im-
aged with digital radiography. Uncooperative pediatric
patients may require sedation or anesthesia. The range in
size from the neonate to the young adult patient requires
a wide range in radiographic technique factors and a
digital image receptor that properly processes an x-ray
pattern in space that may or may not cover the entire
image receptor. The decision to use an antiscatter grid
must be carefully considered as a function of patient size.
Standard positioning aids used to immobilize pediatric
patients may generate unacceptable artifacts when used
with digital image receptors. Because the x-ray pattern
from a pediatric chest compared with an adult chest, for
example, has a different dynamic range and other char-
acteristics [24], display parameters used by the digital
acquisition device to properly display the digital image
may need to be unique as a function of patient size.
Display parameters require further alteration if gonadal
shielding or orthopedic implants appear in the displayed
image. Finally, because scoliosis examinations are com-
mon in children, the digital image receptor must provide
an efficient method to generate images up to 36 inches in
length, preferably without doubly exposing some sec-
tions of the patient’s anatomy.
PROPER EXPOSURE FACTORS FOR
STANDARD EXAMINATIONS
Exposure (technique) charts are part of the standard of
care expected by the Joint Commission on Accreditation
of Healthcare Organizations and are required in many
states. For example, in Ohio, exposure charts are required
and must include specification of the body part, thick-
ness, and image receptor components to be used for the
procedure. Internationally, most countries require regu-
lar use of exposure charts. It is necessary to check your
county, state, and local regulations for any specific re-
quirements. You may also be required to compute esti-
mates for entrance skin exposures for these charts.
Exposure charts are an essential quality assurance compo-
nent of any diagnostic x-ray imaging department. These
exposure guides are especially important in CR and DR, in
which the wide exposure latitude makes it possible to obtain
clinical images that are severely underexposed, resulting in
noisy images, or grossly overexposed, resulting in possible
data saturation as well as high patient doses. Improper ex-
posures in digital radiography are more likely to go unno-
ticed because image processing can correct these deficiencies
to a much greater degree than SF systems because of the
wide latitude of the image receptor. Exposure charts are
critical in the portable x-ray environment with CR, because
manual technique factors are normally required. An under-
exposed radiograph will have unacceptable noise, while an
overexposed radiograph may appear to be of exceptional
quality at the expense of patient dose.
The first challenge is to understand what constitutes a
properly exposed radiograph [29-31]. In SF systems, the
limited dynamic range of the film determines the exposure
latitude. In the digital world, wider exposure latitude can be
used to take into account the differing energy responses of
the systems and the variability introduced in the dose esti-
mation scheme. Appendix A provides a suggested range of
exposures to facilitate identifying whether a proper radio-
graph has been obtained. The log of median exposure, sen-
sitivity number, exposure index, and sensitivity value are
representative exposure indicators used by several CR ven-
dors. The detector exposure column lists an approximate
range of corresponding incident exposure values to the CR
imaging plate. Note that repeating overexposures is not rec-
ommended unless information has been lost. At the low
dose end of the scale, it is important for the radiologist and
technologist to review underexposed radiographs to develop
a comfort level for which radiographs need to be repeated. It
is useful to provide some guidance to the technologist with
respect to how to correct an improperly exposed radiograph
(see Appendix B). Exposure charts must be tailored for each
digital radiography x-ray system and detector combination
[32]. There is considerable variability in image receptor re-
sponse because of varying scatter sensitivity, the use of grids
with different grid ratios, collimation, beam filtration, the
choice of kilovoltage, source to image distance, and image
receptor size. Many CR and DR systems also permit the
choice of several exposure (speed) classes. Technique factors
for each clinically used exposure class should be constructed.
In addition, exposure charts should be designed to function
over the wide range of adult patient sizes seen in our clinics
today and over the even wider range of sizes found in pedi-
atric radiography.
Given a table of body-part thicknesses with suggested
technique factors, one can derive, using a spreadsheet pro-
gram, a full table of values using knowledge of the effect of
thickness and kVp on the penetration of the beam. There
are also several commercial programs that can be tailored to
digital radiography. Typically, the entire exposure chart is
calibrated to a single set of exposures based on a common
body part, such as the abdomen. A water tank or anthropo-
380 Journal of the American College of Radiology/ Vol. 4 No. 6 June 2007

morphic phantom can be used to develop appropriate tech-
niques for the abdominal radiograph. Water works better
than acrylic or aluminum because the scatter characteristics
are more comparable with the clinical situation. As dis-
cussed previously, scatter characteristics can be quite differ-
ent for digital radiography than for SF. It is also necessary to
measure Bucky factors for the undertable and wall Bucky
assemblies as well as for any snap-on grids (also known as
grid caps, portable grids) that may be used with the x-ray

machine. Once exposure factors have been determined that
result in an appropriate radiograph for the abdomen with
the various image receptors, all other values for mAs are
interpolated using corrections for distance, Bucky factors,
exposure class, patient thickness, and machine output. The
exposure chart is then cleaned up by rounding values of mAs
to match available mAs stations on the machine. An exam-
ple of a technique chart developed for CR is shown in
Appendix C.
Similar exposure charts should be constructed for the use
of portable x-ray equipment. The x-ray output of a portable
radiography unit is generally substantially lower than that of
a 3-phase or high-frequency stationary x-ray machine. This
reduced output capability results in increased exposure
times compared with conventional radiography. As a result,
patient motion is a common image degradation factor. This
factor, coupled with the difficulty in positioning grids cor-
rectly in a portable setting, results in frequent exposures
being taken without the use of a grid, also degrading overall
image quality. Manual techniques are used because photo-
timers are usually not available in the portable setting. An
example of an exposure chart suitable for portable radiogra-
phy in an emergency department trauma setting is shown in
Appendix D.
Another issue to consider, particularly for portable
radiography, is achieving reproducible image quality for
repeated studies such as portable chest images that are
used for radiographic detection and evidence of incre-
mental changes. Important for the radiologist is consis-
tent acquisition techniques by the technologist, includ-
ing kVp, mAs, geometry (source to image distance,
patient positioning), the orientation of imaging receptor
cassette, the use of a grid, technologist positioning mark-
ers, and the consistent use of image-processing parame-
ters that are optimized for the specific study. Acquisition
protocols and technique charts with minimal parameters
and variables (eg, using crosswise image acquisition for all
adult chests with decubitus grids, using a fixed source-to-
image receptor distance (SID) of 127 cm [50 in], 110
kVp, and adjusting only mAs as a function of estimated
patient girth) are key to establishing the desired repro-
ducibility of image presentation (orientation, magnifica-
tion, image enhancement) on the radiologist display
workstation. An example of an exposure chart specifying
these requirements for adult chest portable imaging and
other adult examinations is shown in Appendix E.
AUTOMATIC EXPOSURE CONTROL
In CR, phototimers are frequently used with wall and un-
dertable Buckys in emergency, inpatient, and outpatient
radiology department settings. These AEC units are de-
signed to turn off the x-ray generator when an appropriate
exposure level has been received at the image receptor. Au-
tomatic exposure controls work well if properly calibrated
and properly positioned over clinically important areas of
the patient. They fail if placed incorrectly or if pathology in
the AEC region of interest causes a significantly different
density to be present than expected. Automatic exposure
control devices are energy dependent and may require cali-
bration at multiple kVps to function properly over a wide
range of patient sizes. Some x-ray generators have prepro-
grammed energy response curves, and these units may not
work as well with CR as with conventional SF receptors
because they were probably manufactured to be matched to
typical SF energy and scatter characteristics. In this situa-
tion, calibrate the wall Bucky for chest work and the under-
table Bucky for abdominal procedures, or whatever is the
most common procedure performed on that image receptor
at your institution.
In DR, the AEC is normally built into the image
receptor assembly, and it works in a manner similar to the
phototimers used in SF radiography. However, the num-
ber or area of the photosensitive elements may differ
from the configurations normally used with conven-
tional SF systems depending on vendor implementation.
Most x-ray generator phototimers are designed to be
calibrated for multiple image receptor speeds, usually
designated by names such as regular, chest, and detail
cassettes. AECs can be calibrated to multiple exposure
classes such as 400, 200, and 100 to cover a variety of
different CR and DR receptors or specific clinical situa-
tions such as pediatrics [33,34]. Some CR vendors per-
mit a variety of exposure classes in their software, so the
exposure class on the x-ray console must be manually
selected to match the exposure class appropriate for that
procedure. This can lead to errors if technologists are not
vigilant in matching the x-ray generator exposure class to
the CR reader exposure class. With some implementa-
tions of CR, the AEC unit must be calibrated on the basis
of cassette size instead of exposure class. Check with the
vendor so that you know which method is most appro-
priate for you. In DR, the exposure class may also be user
selectable, and vigilance is necessary to ensure that tech-
nologists are using the appropriate exposure classes, es-
pecially for pediatrics. It is usually set automatically in
digital radiography systems with an integral x-ray tube
assembly.
Williams et al/Image Acquisition 381

SUMMARY: OBSERVATIONS AND
CHALLENGES
The rapid movement in radiography away from SF tech-
nology to both CR and DR has created both improved
efficiency and more options in radiology. Yet at the same
time, the increased complexity and lack of transfer of
skills learned in the SF era by both radiologists and tech-
nologists has produced a gap in the ability to perform
quality assurance and quality improvement. It is imper-
ative to understand these digital radiography systems to
provide quality radiology services and to protect patients
from unnecessary radiation dose.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This paper was written collaboratively by the ACR, the
American Association of Physicists in Medicine, and the
Society for Imaging Informatics in Medicine according
to the process described in the ACR’s Practice Guidelines
and Technical Standards book.
REFERENCES
1. Seibert JA. Film digitizers and laser printers. In: Seibert JA, Filipow LJ,
Andriole KP, eds. Practical digital imaging and PACS (American Associ-
ation of Physicists in Medicine Medical Physics Monograph No. 25).
Madison, WI: Medical Physics Publishing; 1999:107-33.
2. American Association of Physicists in Medicine. Report of AAPM Task
Group 10, Report #93. Acceptance testing and quality control of photo-
stimulable storage phosphor imaging systems: College Park, MD: Amer-
ican Association of Physicists in Medicine; 2006. Available from http://
aapm.org/pubs/reports/RPT_93.pdf.
3. Samei E, Saunders RS, Lo JY, et al. Fundamental imaging characteristics of a
slot-scan digital chest radiographic system. Med Phys 2004;31:2687-98.
4. Pascoal A, Lawinski CP, Mackenzie A, Tabakov S, Lewis CA. Chest
radiography: a comparison of image quality and effective dose using four
digital systems. Radiat Prot Dosim 2005;114:273-7.
5. Beningfield S, Potgieter H, Nicol A, et al. Report on a new type of trauma
fullbody digital x-ray machine. Emer Radiol 2003;10:23-9.
6. Seibert JA, Shelton DK, Moore EH. Computed radiography x-ray expo-
sure trends. Acad Radiol 1996;3:331-8.
7. Freedman M, Pe E, Mun SK, Lo SCB, Nelson M. The potential for
unnecessary patient exposure from the use of storage phosphor imaging
systems. Proc SPIE 1993;1897:472-9.
8. Gur D, Fuhman CR, Feist JH, Slifko R, Peace B. Natural migration to a
higher dose in CR imaging. In: Proceedings of the Eighth European
Congress of Radiology, Vienna, Austria, September 12-17, 1993:154.
9. Zhao W, Rowlands JA. X-ray imaging using amorphous selenium: feasi-
bility of a flat panel self-scanned detector for digital radiology. Med Phys
1995;22:1595-604.
10. Johns HE, Cunningham JR. The physics of radiology. 4th ed. Springfield,
IL: Charles C. Thomas; 1983.
11. El-Mohri Y, Antonuk LE, Yorkston J, et al. Relative dosimetry using active
matrix flat-panel imager (AMFPI) technology. Med Phys 1999;26:1530-41.
12. Seibert JA, Boone JM III, Cooper VN, Lindfors KK. Cassette-based
digital mammography. Technol Cancer Res Treat 2004;3:413-27.
13. Schaetzing R. Computed radiography technology. In: Balter S, Shope TB,
eds. Radiological Society of North American 81st Scientific Assembly and
Annual Meeting. Oak Brook, IL: Radiological Society of North America;
1995:7-22.
14. Blackman RB, Tukey JW. The measurement of power spectra. New York:
Dover; 1958.
15. Rabbani M, Shaw R, Van Metter R. Detective quantum efficiency of
imaging systems with amplifying and scattering mechanisms. J Opt Soc
Am A 1987;4:895-901.
16. Cunningham IA. Applied linear-systems theory. In: Beutel J, Kundel HL,
Van Metter RL, eds. Handbook of medical imaging. Bellingham, WA:
SPIE Press; 2000:79-159.
17. Seibert JA. Digital image processing basics. In: Balter S, Shope TB, eds.
Radiological Society of North American 81st Scientific Assembly and
Annual Meeting. Oak Brook, IL: Radiological Society of North America;
1995:121-42.
18. International Commission on Radiation Units and Measurements. Med-
ical imaging—the assessment of image quality. Bethesda, MD: Interna-
tional Commission on Radiation Units and Measurements; 1996.
19. Myers KJ. Ideal observer models of visual signal detection. In: Beutel J,
Kundel HL, Van Metter RL, eds. Handbook of medical imaging. Belling-
ham, WA: SPIE Press; 2000:559-92.
20. Barrett HH, Yao J, Rolland JP, Myers KJ. Model observers for assessment
of image quality. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 1993;90:9758-9765.
21. Rose A. Vision human and electronic. New York, NY: Plenum; 1972.
22. Gagne RM, Myers KJ, Quinn PW. Effect of shift invariance and station-
arity assumptions on simple detection tasks: spatial and spatial frequency
domains. Proc SPIE 2001;4320:373-80.
23. Monnin P, Gutierrez D, Bulling S, Lepori D, Valley JF, Verdun FR.
Performance comparison of an active matrix flat panel imager, computed
radiography system, and a screen-film system at four standard radiation
qualities. Med Phys 2005;32:343-50.
24. Strauss KJ, Poznauskis L. Practical applications of CR in pediatric imag-
ing. App Radiol 2005;June(suppl):S12-8.
25. Hall EJ. Lessons we have learned from our children: cancer risks from
diagnostic radiology. Pediatr Radiol 2002;32:700-6.
26. Hufton AP, Doyle SM, Carty HML. Digital radiography in paediatrics:
radiation dose considerations and magnitude of possible dose reduction.
Br J Radiol 1998;71:186-99.
27. Huda W, Slone RM, Belden CJ, Williams JL, Cumming WA, Palmer
CK. Mottle on computed radiographs of the chest in pediatric patients.
Radiology 1996;199:249-52.
28. The ALARA concept in pediatric CT and DR; dose reduction in pediatric
radiographic exams—a white paper conference executive summary. Pedi-
atr Radiol 2004;3(suppl):S162-4.
29. Merrill’s atlas of radiographic positions and radiologic procedures, vols
I-III. 10th ed. St. Louis, MO: Mosby; 2003.
30. Bontrager KL. Textbook of radiographic positioning and related anat-
omy. 5th ed. St. Louis, MO: Mosby; 2001.
31. Carlton RR, Adler AM. Principles of radiographic imaging: an art and a
science. 3rd ed. Stanford, CT: Thomson Learning; 2001.
32. Carroll OB. Fuch’s radiographic exposure and quality control. 7th ed.
Springfield, IL: Charles C. Thomas; 2003.
33. Christodoulou EG, Goodsitt MM, Chan HP. Phototimer setup for CR
imaging. Med Phys 2000;27:2653-8.
34. Goldman LW. Speed values, AEC performance evaluation, and quality
control with digital receptors. In: Goldman LW, Yester MV, eds. Speci-
fications, performance evaluations, and quality assurance of radiographic
and fluoroscopic systems in the digital era. Madison, WI: Medical Physics
Publishing; 2004:272-97.
382 Journal of the American College of Radiology/ Vol. 4 No. 6 June 2007

Appendix A
On the basis of the vendor’s recommendation for what consti-
tutes an appropriately exposed radiograph, one can use Table
A1 or a similar table to provide guidance to the technologist
regarding proper exposure levels. Several CR exposure indices
are illustrated in this example.
With too low an incident exposure, the image is domi-
nated by noise, the corresponding SNR is very poor, and the
ability to detect subtle differences in x-ray attenuation is
compromised. With too high an incident exposure, highly
penetrated areas in the image may suffer from saturation
effects and the loss of contrast that cannot be compensated
for with image processing. These recommendations depend
on several issues, including the type of CR reader (newer
systems, such as the dual-light collection systems, have a
higher DQE and will consequently have a lower exposure
recommendation for all indications), the type of image plate
(later-generation image plates may have better exposure
performance), the quality and calibration settings of the CR
reader and image plate, and the tolerance of the radiologist
to image noise, among other considerations. Continuous
analysis and feedback are required to get the optimal range
of exposures and indications for a given examination at a
given site. Similar guidance can be provided for digital
radiography for those systems that provide an indication of
the exposure used to obtain a radiograph. Use caution in
applying this chart to any specific CR implementation since
x-ray generator output characteristics and CR plate energy
sensitivities vary widely.
Appendix B
Table B1 is a conversion factor table that provides a rapid
means for the technologist to understand how to correct for
an improperly exposed radiograph. This example is for one
CR vendor implementation (Agfa), using log of median
exposure as the exposure indicator. Similar tables can be
constructed using the information in Table A1 as a guide-
line for other vendor exposure settings. Technologists are
very familiar with the change required to obtain an appro-
priate SF radiograph, and the same concept is used here to
suggest improvements in technique factors with CR, as well
as in deciding when to repeat a study. Use caution in apply-
ing this chart to any specific CR implementation since x-ray
generator output characteristics and CR plate energy sensi-
tivities vary widely.
Appendix C
Table C1 is an example of an exposure chart for CR for a
3-phase, 12-pulse generator. Distances are in inches. When
constructing a clinical exposure chart, the mAs values
should be adjusted to match the nearest mAs station avail-
able on the generator.
Appendix D
Table D1 is a typical mobile radiography exposure chart for
CR used in an emergency department trauma setting. This
example includes the use of 3 exposure classes, depending
on the clinical situation. Note the use of lower kVps and
longer exposure times and the minimal use of grids in this
portable trauma setting compared with the previous fixed
3-phase generator exposure chart (Table C1). Use caution
in applying this chart to any specific CR implementation
since x-ray generator output characteristics and CR plate
energy sensitivities vary widely.
Appendix E
Table E1 is an example of an exposure chart developed for
bedside CR with the standardization of parameters. In this
example, all AP chest examinations are performed crosswise
(landscape orientation). All adult chest procedures are per-
formed using a decubitus grid. If their conditions allow,
patients are inclined to get as close to upright as is possible.
Use caution in applying this chart to any specific CR im-
plementation since x-ray generator output characteristics
and CR plate energy sensitivities vary widely.
Table A1. Suggested guidelines for QC action based on estimated incident exposure
(Conventional CR system for an “equivalent” speed class  200)
Fuji
(S Number)
Agfa
(lgM Value)
Kodak
(Exposure Index)
Detector Exposure
(mR) Indication
1,000 1.45 1,250 0.2 Underexposed: repeat if necessary
1000-601 1.45-1.74 1,250-1,549 0.2-0.3 Underexposed: QC exception
600-301 1.75-2.04 1,550-1,849 0.3-0.7 Underexposed: QC review
300-150 2.05-2.35 1,850-2,150 0.7-1.3 Acceptable range
149-75 2.36-2.65 2,151-2,450 1.3-2.7 Overexposed: QC review
74-50 2.66-2.95 2,451-2,750 2.7-4.0 Overexposed: QC exception
50 2.95 2,750 4.0 Overexposed: QC repeat if necessary
Note: lgM  log of median exposure; QC  quality control; S number  sensitivity number.
Williams et al/Image Acquisition 383

Table B1. Required change in milliampere-seconds (mAs) to achieve a target log of median exposure (IgM) value of 2.20
Underexposed: Increase mAs Proper Clinical Techniques Overexposed: Reduce mAs
LgM
Value
Difference
From Target
LgM
Required mAs
Scale Factor
LgM
Value
Difference
From Target
LgM
Required mAs
Scale Factor
LgM
Value
Difference
From Target
LgM
Required mAs
Scale Factor
Underexposed,
repeat
1.40 0.80 6.31 2.00 0.20 1.58 2.42 0.22 0.60 Overexposed
1.42 0.78 0.03 2.02 0.18 1.51 2.44 0.24 0.58
1.44 0.76 5.75 2.04 0.16 1.45 2.46 0.26 0.55
1.46 0.74 5.50 2.06 0.14 1.38 2.48 0.28 0.52
1.48 0.72 5.25 2.08 0.12 1.32 2.50 0.30 0.50
1.50 0.70 5.01 2.10 0.10 1.26 2.52 0.32 0.48
1.52 0.68 4.79 2.12 0.08 1.20 2.54 0.34 0.46
1.54 0.66 4.57 2.14 0.06 1.15 2.56 0.36 0.44
1.56 0.64 4.37 2.16 0.04 1.10 2.58 0.38 0.42
1.58 0.62 4.17 2.18 0.02 1.05 2.60 0.40 0.40
1.60 0.60 3.98  2.20 0.00 1.00  2.62 0.42 0.38 Overexposed,
check for
burnout,
repeat if
necessary
1.62 0.58 3.80 2.22 0.02 0.95 2.64 0.44 0.36
1.64 0.56 3.63 2.24 0.04 0.91 2.66 0.46 0.35
1.66 0.54 3.47 2.26 0.06 0.87 2.68 0.48 0.33
1.68 0.52 3.31 2.28 0.08 0.83 2.70 0.50 0.32
1.70 0.50 3.16 2.30 0.10 0.79 2.72 0.52 0.30
1.72 0.48 3.02 2.32 0.12 0.76 2.74 0.54 0.29
1.74 0.46 2.88 2.34 0.14 0.72 2.76 0.56 0.28

1.76 0.44 2.75 2.36 0.16 0.69 2.78 0.58 0.26
1.78 0.42 2.63 2.38 0.18 0.68 2.80 0.60 0.25
Underexposed,
review with
radiologist
1.80 0.40 2.51 2.40 0.20 0.63 2.82 0.62 0.24
1.82 0.38 2.40 2.84 0.64 0.23
1.84 0.36 2.29 2.86 0.68 0.22
1.86 0.34 2.19 2.88 0.68 0.21
1.88 0.32 2.09 2.90 0.70 0.20
1.90 0.30 2.00 2.92 0.72 0.19
1.92 0.28 1.91 2.94 0.74 0.18
1.94 0.26 1.82 2.96 0.76 0.17
1.96 0.24 1.74 2.98 0.78 0.17
1.98 0.22 1.68 3.00 0.80 0.15
Example 1: LgM value was 1.80. To get a proper exposure of 2.2, increase the mAs by a factor of 2.5. If the mAs was 20, change it to 2.5  20  50 mAs. You could also increase the
kilovolt peak (kVp). Remember, a 15% increase in kVp doubles the tube output.
Example 2: LgM value was 3.02. To get a proper exposure of 2.2, decrease the mAs by a factor of 0.16. If the mAs was 20, change it to 0.16  20  32 mAs. You could also decrease
the kVp to achieve the same effect.
384

Journal of the American College of Radiology/ Vol. 4 No. 6 June 2007

Table C1. Computed radiography exposure chart
Procedure View Distance Receptor
Speed
class kVp
Total mAs for Different Body Part Thicknesses
Average
cm 6 cm 4 cm 2 cm Average 2 cm 4 cm 6 cm 8 cm
Chest PA/AP 72 W 200 106 72 1.25 1.67 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33
LAT 72 W 200 116 30 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
AP 72 T 200 80 22 1.25 1.67 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33
LAT 72 T 200 90 30 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
Supine chest AP 40 T 200 80 22 0.90 1.20 1.80 2.40 3.60 4.80 7.20 9.60
Ribs/sternum AP Above Diaph 72 W 400 60 22 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67 40.00 53.33 80.00 106.67
OBL Above Diaph 72 W 400 64 24 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00 120.00 160.00
AP Below Diaph 72 W 400 76 22 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00 120.00 160.00 240.00 320.00
Abdomen AP/PA 40 B 400 80 22 7.50 10.00 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00
30° OBL 40 B 400 60 24 11.00 14.67 22.00 29.33 44.00 58.67 88.00 117.33
Pelvis/hip AP 40 B 400 80 22 7.50 10.00 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00
LAT 40 B 400 80 22 7.50 10.00 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00
Sacrum AP 40 B 400 76 20 7.50 10.00 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00
LAT 40 B 400 80 28 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00 120.00 160.00
Lumbar spine AP 40 B 400 80 22 7.50 10.00 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00
45° OBL 40 B 400 80 26 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00 120.00 160.00
LAT 40 B 400 80 30 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00 120.00 160.00 240.00 320.00
L5/S1 40 B 400 90 30 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00 120.00 180.00 240.00 320.00
Thoracic spine AP 40 B 400 76 22 6.50 8.87 13.00 17.33 26.00 34.67 52.00 69.33
LAT 40 B 400 76 30 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00 120.00 160.00
Cervical spine AP/Odon 40 B 400 76 13 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
AP/Odon 72 W 400 76 13 7.50 10.00 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00
OBL/LAT 72 W 400 76 13 7.50 10.00 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00
OBL/LAT 72 T 400 76 13 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
Skull PA/Caldwell 40 B 400 80 19 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67 40.00 53.33
LAT 40 B 400 76 15 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
Townes 40 B 400 80 22 7.50 10.00 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00
Sinuses/facial
bones
PA/Caldwell 40 B 400 76 19 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67 40.00 53.33
Waters 40 B 400 80 20 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67 40.00 53.33
LAT 40 B 400 76 15 1.88 2.50 3.75 5.00 7.50 10.00 15.00 20.00
Hand PA 40 T 100 54 4 1.10 1.47 2.20 2.93 4.40 5.87 8.80 11.73
OBL 40 T 100 54 6 1.25 1.67 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33
Fanned LAT 40 T 100 54 8 2.25 3.00 4.50 6.00 8.00 12.00 16.00 24.00
Wrist PA 40 T 100 60 5 1.10 1.47 2.20 2.93 4.40 5.67 6.80 11.73
OBL 40 T 100 60 6 1.85 2.20 3.30 4.40 6.60 8.80 13.20 17.60
LAT 40 T 100 60 7 2.25 3.00 4.50 6.00 8.00 12.00 18.00 24.00
Forearm AP 40 T 100 64 7 1.10 1.47 2.20 2.93 4.40 5.87 8.80 11.73
LAT 40 T 100 64 8 2.25 3.00 4.50 6.00 8.00 12.00 18.00 24.00
AP  anterior-posterior; Diaph  diaphragm; L5/S1  fifth lumbar vertebrae/first sacra vertebrae; LAT  Lateral; OBL  oblique; Ondo  ondotoid; PA  posterior-anterior.
Williams et al/Image Acquisition

385

Table C1. Continued
Procedure View Distance Receptor
Speed
class kVp
Total mAs for Different Body Part Thicknesses
Average
cm 6 cm 4 cm 2 cm Average 2 cm 4 cm 6 cm 8 cm
Elbow AP 40 T 100 64 7 1.50 2.00 3.00 4.00 8.00 8.00 12.00 16.00
OBL 40 T 100 64 8 2.00 2.67 4.00 5.33 8.00 10.87 16.00 21.33
LAT 40 T 100 64 8 3.00 4.00 6.00 8.00 12.00 16.00 24.00 32.00
Humerus AP 40 T 100 72 8 1.10 1.47 2.20 2.93 4.40 5.67 8.80 11.73
LAT 40 T 100 72 9 1.80 2.40 3.60 4.80 7.20 9.60 14.40 19.20
Toes All 40 T 100 60 2 1.10 1.47 2.20 2.93 4.40 5.67 8.80 11.73
Foot AP 40 T 100 64 7 1.25 1.67 2.60 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33
OBL 40 T 100 64 8 1.65 2.20 3.30 4.40 6.60 8.80 13.20 17.50
LAT 40 T 100 64 8 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
Calcanus PA 40 T 100 68 9 3.50 4.67 7.00 9.33 14.00 18.67 26.00 37.33
LAT 40 T 100 68 8 3.50 4.67 7.00 9.33 14.00 18.67 28.00 37.33
Ankle AP/OBL 40 T 100 64 9 1.80 2.40 3.60 4.80 7.20 9.60 14.40 19.20
LAT 40 T 100 64 8 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
Tibia/fibula AP 40 T 100 68 11 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
LAT 40 T 100 68 10 2.50 3.33 5.00 5.57 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
Knee AP 40 T 100 70 12 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
LAT 40 T 100 70 11 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
AP/OBL 40 B 100 70 12 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
LAT 40 B 100 70 11 2.50 3.33 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67
Femur AP/LAT 40 B 400 76 16 6.00 8.00 12.00 16.00 24.00 32.00 48.00 64.00
Shoulder AP/Transax 40 B 400 76 18 3.00 4.00 6.00 8.00 12.00 16.00 24.00 32.00
Transthoracic 40 B 400 90 40 7.50 10.00 15.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 60.00 80.00
Clavicle AP/PA 40 B 400 74 16 3.00 4.00 6.00 8.00 12.00 16.00 24.00 32.00
Scapula AP 40 B 400 74 18 3.00 4.00 6.00 8.00 12.00 16.00 24.00 32.00
LAT 40 B 400 74 24 5.00 6.67 10.00 13.33 20.00 26.67 40.00 53.33
Note: AP  anterior-posterior; B  under table Bucky with grid; LAT  lateral; mAs  milliampere-seconds; OBL  oblique; PA  posterior-anterior; T  tabletop nongrid; Transax 
trans-axial; W  wall Bucky with grid.
386

Journal of the American College of Radiology/ Vol. 4 No. 6 June 2007

Table D1. Mobile computed radiography exposure chart for trauma radiology
Body Part Position Patient Size kVp mAs Distance Speed Class Grid
Chest PA/AP
Upright 72
Small 80 5 72 200 No
Average 85 10 72 200 No
Large 90 16 72 200 No
PA/AP Small 70 5 40 200 No
Average 75 8 40 200 No
Large 85 10 40 200 No
Lateral-72 Small 85 10 72 200 No
Average 90 20 72 200 No
Large 95 32 72 200 No
Lateral Small 75 10 40 200 No
Average 80 16 40 200 No
Large 90 20 40 200 No
AP Newborn 65 0.5 40 400 No
Lateral Newborn 70 1 40 400 No
Abdomen AP-Grid Average 70 48 40 400 Yes
Ankle AP Average 55 12.55 40 100 No
Lateral Average 55 10 40 100 No
Cervical spine AP Average 60 7.5 40 400 No
Lateral-72 Average 65 15 72 400 No
Elbow AP Average 55 12.5 40 100 No
Lateral Average 55 10 40 100 No
Femur AP/Lateral Average 55 10 40 400 No
Foot AP Average 52 8 40 100 No
Hand/Wrist PA Average 50 5 40 100 No
Lateral Average 55 8 40 100 No
Humerus AP/Lateral Average 55 2.5 40 100 No
Knee AP Average 55 25 40 100 No
Lateral Average 55 16 40 100 No
Lumbar spine AP-Grid Average 75 48 40 400 Yes
Lateral-Grid Average 85 150 40 400 Yes
Pelvis/Hip AP Average 55 24 40 400 No
AP-Grid Average 70 50 40 400 Yes
Lateral-Grid Average 80 75 40 400 Yes
Shoulder/Clavicle AP Average 55 5 40 400 No
Skull AP Average 60 16 40 400 No
Lateral Average 55 10 40 400 No
AP-Grid Average 75 20 40 400 Yes
Lateral-Grid Average 65 10 40 400 Yes
Thoracic spine AP Average 65 16 40 400 No
Note: AP  anterior-posterior; kVp  kilovolt peak; mAs  milliampere-seconds.
Williams et al/Image Acquisition 387

Table E1. Exposure chart: example of computed radiography exposure chart using grids and
standardized parameters
Anatomic Region Examination
Measurement
(cm) SID Grid kVp
Small
(mAs)
Medium
(mAs)
Large
(mAs)
Chesta Chest portable AP 20-30 50 Yesa 110 6 10 12
Skull Skull PA/AP 18-21 40 Yes 80 12 20 30
Skull lateral 14-17 40 Yes 80 6 12 18
Spine Cervical AP 11-14 40 Yes 80 6 12 18
Thoracic AP 20-24 40 Yes 80 18 26 40
Lumbar AP 18-22 40 Yes 80 24 40 64
Abdomen Abdomen (KUB) 18-22 40 Yes 80 24 40 64
Pelvis Pelvis AP 19-23 40 Yes 80 24 40 64
Hip AP 17-21 40 Yes 80 20 35 50
Cross table lateral hip 25-31 40 Yes 85 30 42 55
Upper extremities Finger 1.5-4 40 No 60 1 1 2
Hand AP/OBL 3-5 40 No 60 1 2 4
Hand lateral 3-5 40 No 60 2 3 4
Wrist AP/OBL 3-6 40 No 60 1.5 2 3
Wrist lateral 3-6 40 No 60 1.5 3 4
Forearm AP 6-8 40 No 60 2 3 4
Forearm lateral 6-8 40 No 60 2 3 4
Elbow 6-8 40 No 60 2 3 4
Humerus 7-10 40 Yes 80 6 10 13
Shoulder 12-16 40 Yes 80 7 12 15
Lower extremities Toes 1.5-4 40 No 60 1.5 2.5 4
Foot AP/OBL 6-8 40 No 60 2 3 5
Foot lateral 6-8 40 No 60 2.5 4 6
Ankle AP 8-10 40 No 60 3 5 7
Ankle lateral 8-10 40 No 60 2 3 6
Tib/Fib AP 10-12 40 No 60 2 4 6
Tib/Fib lateral 10-12 40 No 60 2 4 6
Knee AP/lateral 10-13 40 No 60 6 12 20
Knee AP/lateral 10-13 40 Yes 60 3 5 8
Femur AP/lateral 14-17 40 Yes 80 15 25 40
Note: AP  anterior-posterior; Fib  fibula; KUB  Kidneys, Ureter, Bladder; kVp  kilovolt peak; large  30 cm; mAs 
milliampere-seconds; medium  25 to 30 cm; OBL  oblique; PA  posterior-anterior; SID  Source to Image receptor Distance;
small  20 to 25 cm; Tib  tibia.
a Use short dimension (decubitus) grid, position cassette always cross-wise (landscape).
388 Journal of the American College of Radiology/ Vol. 4 No. 6 June 2007
