queueId: ingest-1781569954417-159p
sourcePath: raw/sources/DHF (인허가)/01_HAD1717MC, MG/05_설계개발 검증 및 유효성 확인/11_Clinical Evaluation/LITERATURE/9. Flat detectors and their clinical applications_Martin Spahn.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/DHF (인허가)/_combined/008f61834c81/9. Flat detectors and their clinical applications_Martin Spahn__008f61834c81_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 6c94d8eb3327
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: general
pilotRank: 258

SOURCE_TEXT
Eur Radiol (2005) 15: 1934–1947
DOI 10.1007/s00330-005-2734-9 PHYSICS
Martin Spahn
Received: 22 November 2004
Revised: 8 February 2005
Accepted: 1 March 2005
Published online: 2 April 2005
# Springer-Verlag 2005
Flat detectors and their clinical applications
Abstract Diagnostic and
interventional flat detector X-ray
systems are penetrating the market in
all application segments. First
introduced in radiography and
mammography, they have conquered
cardiac and general angiography and
are getting increasing attention in
fluoroscopy. Two flat detector
technologies prevail. The dominating
method is based on an indirect X-ray
conversion process, using cesium
iodide scintillators. It offers
considerable advantages in
radiography, angiography and
fluoroscopy. The other method
employs a direct converter such as
selenium which is particularly suitable
for mammography. Both flat detector
technologies are based on amorphous
silicon active pixel matrices. Flat
detectors facilitate the clinical
workflow in radiographic rooms,
foster improved image quality and
provide the potential to reduce dose.
This added value is based on their
large dynamic range, their high
sensitivity to X-rays and the instant
availability of the image. Advanced
image processing is instrumental in
these improvements and expand the
range of conventional diagnostic
methods. In angiography and
fluoroscopy the transition from image
intensifiers to flat detectors is
facilitated by ample advantages they
offer, such as distortion-free images,
excellent coarse contrast, large
dynamic range and high X-ray
sensitivity. These characteristics and
their compatibility with strong
magnetic fields are the basis for
improved diagnostic methods and
innovative interventional applications.
Keywords Flat detector . Amorphous
silicon active matrix . Radiography .
Angiography . Digital image
processing
Introduction
In the late 1990s—about 100 years after the discovery of
X-rays by Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen—flat detectors were
first introduced in medical X-ray diagnostics. Since then
this new technology has set out to become the prime stan-
dard in digital X-ray imaging. In general projection radi-
ography and mammography flat detectors are increasingly
replacing the analog screen-film combinations as well as
the digital storage phosphor systems. In cardiac angiogra-
phy flat detectors with the characteristics of real-time im-
aging of up to 30 fps (frames per second) or even 60 fps in
pediatric cardiac imaging have become so popular that they
have almost completely substituted the image intensifier
systems within a few years. Changes of this nature are also
taking place in general angiography and in fluoroscopy.
Hence, flat detectors put us for the first time in a position to
finally realize the vision of obtaining a single technology
that covers all applications in X-ray diagnostics and inter-
ventional techniques [1–7].
In the following, the technology of flat detectors is intro-
duced and their two flavors of indirect and direct conversion
are discussed. Next, the basic performance characteristics
of flat detectors is presented. Thereafter, the main advan-
M. Spahn (*)
Siemens AG, Medical Solutions,
Angiography, Fluoroscopic and
Radiography Systems,
Siemensstraße 1,
91301 Forchheim, Germany
e-mail: martin.spahn@siemens.com
Tel.: +49-9191-188704
Fax: +49-9191-189877

tages provided by this technology are discussed with the
focus on workflow, image processing and new applications.
Finally, a brief outlook into future developments is given.
Technology and design of flat detectors
Any X-ray detector for medical imaging needs to serve the
purpose of efficiently absorbing the impinging X-ray flux
and converting it into a geometry-conserving digital image
signal. The spatial and contrast resolution of the detector
should be selected to meet the requirements of the re-
spective application. While the signal per absorbed X-ray
should be maximized, the additive electronic noise gener-
ated during the numerous conversion and amplification
steps is to be kept at a minimum. DQE (detective quantum
efficiency) has evolved as the fundamental physical param-
eter describing the performance characteristics of an X-ray
detector as it combines these various requirements. It de-
scribes a detector’s ability to convert efficiently the avail-
able X-ray radiation at its input into a useful image signal at
its output [8]. The objective of any advances in the develop-
ment of detector technology must be either to reach or to sur-
pass the DQE of previously established detector technologies.
A number of design criteria directly influence the main
features of a detector. They include (1) active area, (2) pixel
size, (3) image acquisition rate, (4) dynamic range, as well
as (5) outer dimensions and (6) weight. All of these param-
eters need to be selected carefully in accordance with the
intended application of the detector.
Flat detector technology is the only detector technology
available today that covers the various requirements of the
entire application spectrum, ranging from general radiog-
raphy to mammography, angiography and fluoroscopy. In
the following sections, flat detector technology is described
and discussed in detail.
The amorphous silicon active readout matrix
The development of LCD (liquid crystal display) technol-
ogy for the consumer market as a replacement for monitors
based on cathode ray tubes, has made a technology avail-
able whose characteristics are also ideally suited for sensors
in medical X-ray imaging. It is based on hydrogenated
amorphous silicon (a-Si:H) which can be deposited as thin
films. Amorphous silicon combines several favorable char-
acteristics. First, it exhibits all of the semiconductor properties
such as doping, photoconductivity or junction formation.
This makes it suitable for the manufacture of electrical
components such as TFTs (thin-film transistors) and photo-
diodes. Second, the plasma deposition process permits
large-area deposition which allows to produce active ma-
trices of several million pixels (Fig. 1) and sizes exceeding
40×40 cm 2
. Third, amorphous silicon has proven to be
highly radiation hard, making it suitable for applications in
medical X-ray imaging. These active matrices are the cen-
tral components of flat detectors.
Two different conversion processes of X-ray radiation
into electric charge prevail. The first approach is based on
an indirect conversion process, where the X-ray radiation
is converted into light which in turn is absorbed, creating
electric charge. The second approach features the direct
conversion of X-ray quanta into electric charge. Both
methods are described in the following sections.
Flat detectors based on an indirect conversion process
The most widely used design of flat detectors as of today is
based on a two-level, indirect conversion process [9–13].
The X-ray quantum is absorbed creating a high energy elec-
tron via photo absorption (Fig. 2). While losing energy in
the scintillator material, the electron creates a large number
Gate line Photo diode
TFT
Bias line
Data line
Fig. 1 Schematic view of the pixel structure of an indirect con-
verting amorphous silicon active matrix sensor array showing pho-
todiode, TFT, as well as gate, bias and data lines
Incident X-ray
Photoelectric absorption in the
scintillator
Ionization and generation of
light quanta
Conversion of light into electric
charge in the photodiode
Amorphous silicon active
readout matrix circuitry
X-ray
e
-
Fig. 2 Schematics of the indirect conversion process
1935

of electron-hole pairs which in turn recombine to produce
photons in the visible range. Subsequently, this light hits
the photodiode where it is converted to electric charge. This
two-step conversion process has the advantage that both
stages can be optimised relatively independently of one
another. Figure 3 shows a schematic view of such a de-
tector, described in detail in the following paragraphs.
The most commonly used scintillators are gadolinium
oxysulfide (Gd 2O 2S) and thallium-doped cesium iodide
(CsI:Tl)-CsI being the scintillator of choice. CsI can be
grown as needle-shaped crystals measuring 5–10 μm in
diameter. This needle–shaped structure acts as a light-guide
and ensures that the light—emitted in the green part of the
visible spectrum—reaches the photodiode with only little
scatter. The other important feature of CsI is its very good
X-ray absorption property (Fig. 4), related to the high
atomic numbers of Z=55 and Z=53 for cesium and iodide,
respectively. It is particularly suitable for applications in
general radiography, angiography and fluoroscopy which
require to cover a wide range of peak voltages from 45 kVp
to 120 kVp. With an effective density of 3.6 g/cm 3
, a CsI
thickness of about 600 μm is typical for this range of ap-
plications. Even though CsI exhibits absorption minima
near the K-edges around 35 keV (Fig. 4), CsI is also an ad-
equate choice for flat detectors in mammography. Mam-
mographic spectra, with typical peak voltages of between
25 and 30 kVp are dominated by the characteristic lines of
the tube anode material (e.g. Kα at 17.5 keV and Kβ at 19.6
Driver electronics
X-ray radiation
Cesium iodide (CsI)
Photo diode
Readout electronics
TFT
Pixel
Fig. 3 Schematic view of an
indirect converting flat detector
based on CsI and an amorphous
silicon active readout matrix
Fig. 4 Absorption coefficients
of CsI, a-Se and Gd 2O 2S as a
function of X-ray photon energy
1936

keV for the commonly used molebdynum), well below the
K-edges of CsI. A CsI thickness of about 150 μm is typical
for that application and complies with the demand for good
absorption and high resolution.
The photodiode is designed to reach a high quantum
efficiency in the green part of the visible spectrum to match
the spectrum of the scintillation light. Furthermore, it is
optimised for high geometric aperture. At a pixel size of
about 150 μm, the photodiode covers approximately 70%
of the pixel area (geometric fill-factor) with current designs.
Since the photons are subject to scatter processes in the CsI,
however, the largest part of the signal is detected in the
photodiode, no matter where the X-ray was absorbed in the
continuous CsI layer in the first place. Therefore, one often
refers to an effective fill-factor of 100% for all practical
purposes. Taking all effects into account, an absorbed X-ray
quantum with an energy of 60 keV generates a signal of
approximately one thousand electrons.
The electric circuit for a TFT-based pixel structure is
shown in Fig. 5. Its readout principle works as follows.
First the photodiode, which acts as a capacitor, is charged to
the full bias voltage prior to X-ray radiation with the TFT in
its off-state. During X-ray radiation the converted optical
photons are absorbed in the photodiode creating electron-
hole pairs which drift to opposite contacts and gradually
discharge the photodiode. The readout is initiated when the
TFT is switched on via the gate line. It causes charge to
flow to the photodiode so that its contact is restored to the
data line voltage. The charge flow is measured in the ex-
ternal readout electronics and recorded as the signal. Since
this step resets the photodiode to the full bias voltage the
pixel is ready for the next acquisition.
The readout is performed row by row and addresses all
pixels in the respective row simultaneously. Optimized low
noise electronic circuits with high bandwidth are used to
measure the charge and amplify the signal. These specif-
ically designed chips may be connected to 120 or more
individual readout channels. The readout chip also serves
the function of a multiplexer which feeds the signals to an
ADC (analog-to-digital converter). At this stage the signal
is available for further processing in the image processing
chain.
Flat detectors based on a direct conversion process
The direct detection process is depicted in Fig. 6. An X-ray
which is absorbed in the photoconductor material generates
a high energy electron. On its way through the material this
electron creates many electron-hole pairs while losing its
energy. An electric field is applied across the detection
material to collect the generated charge carriers.
The following basic characteristics should be met by a
material to qualify for a suitable direct converter: (1) high
X-ray absorption, (2) large number of charge carrier gen-
eration per absorbed X-ray, (3) high collection efficiency of
the charge carriers, and (4) low dark current. Photocon-
ductor materials with a high atomic number and density and
therefore good absorption characteristics, as, for example,
lead iodide, lead oxide, cadmium telluride and mercury
iodide are subject to current research [14–16]. The best
understood and most frequently used material is, however,
amorphous selenium (a-Se). It can be deposited directly
onto an active matrix of amorphous silicon, where each
pixel consists of an electrode and a TFT [3, 17].
Due to its low lying K-edge (Fig. 4), a-Se is particularly
well suited for X-ray spectra used in mammography [18,
19]. An a-Se layer thickness of about 250 μm is sufficient
for this application. For general radiography and even more
so for fluoroscopy, however, adequate absorption can only
be reached with an a-Se thickness of up to 1000 μm due
to its relatively low atomic number (Z=34). One absorbed
X-ray creates up to a thousand electron-hole pairs. By
means of an applied electric field the electric charges are
transported to the respective electrodes. On their way through
Gate line
Bias line
Photo diode
TFT
Data line
Fig. 5 Pixel circuit of an active matrix with photo diode and TFT
switch for data readout
Incident X-ray
Photoelectric absorption in the
photoconductor
Ionization and charge
collection by electric field
Collection and storage of
charge in the capacitor
Amorphous silicon active
readout matrix circuitry
X-ray
e
-
Fig. 6 Schematics of the direct conversion process
1937

the material to the storage electrode of the pixel, part of the
generated charge is lost by recombination or deep trapping.
To obtain high charge collection efficiency, field strengths
of about 10 V/μm are needed [18] which requires high
voltages of approximately 10 kV applied across a 1000 μm
thick a-Se layer. This in turn demands special care in the
pixel design to protect the TFT from being damaged by high
voltage discharge. A favorable ratio between drift length
and diffusion length ensures that the charge which reaches
the electrode is almost completely collected by the pixel
located below the position where the X-ray quantum was
initially absorbed.
The charge readout is accomplished by addressing the
TFTs line by line, recharging the electrodes via the data line
and measuring the respective signal in the peripheral low-
noise readout electronics. The amplified signals are sequen-
tially converted to digital signals via one or more ADCs. The
signal is then fed to the image processing chain for further
processing.
Performance characteristics of flat detectors
To characterize the performance of X-ray detectors in a
transparent and reproducible way, a variety of physical mea-
sures have evolved. The most important performance param-
eters are (1) dynamic range, (2) MTF (modulation transfer
function), (3) DQE, and (4) image lag. These high level
parameters are fundamentally governed by a large set of
lower level design and material parameters of the detector.
Figure 7 shows an example of a flat detector specifically
developed for general radiography [10, 12]. This detector
with an indirect conversion process is based on a CsI
scintillator. With its active area of 43×43 cm 2 it is the
largest of its kind and covers the most demanding sizes
such as thorax and pelvis. The pixel size of 143×143 μm 2
,
optimised for high resolution required in radiography, leads
to a square matrix of about 9 million pixels.
Dynamic range
Dynamic range is one of the key parameters characterizing
the performance of X-ray detectors. The flat detector shown
in Fig. 7—applying several 14 bit ADCs—exhibits very
low electronic noise at a level of less than 1 digital unit. It
shows a linear response as a function of dose (Fig. 8) and
begins to saturate at a dose level of about 80 μGy. This
allows a large dose range to be covered without the need for
detector internal amplifier gain changes. Hence, the de-
tector may not only be used at a standard dose level of 2.5
μGy (equivalent to 400 speed) but also at higher dose levels
if highest image quality with respect to stochastic noise is
required and at reduced dose levels (e.g. by 50%) which
were demonstrated to be adequate for skeletal radiography
[20]. Even much lower doses were shown to be useful for
specific purposes such as the control of implants or search
for foreign bodies [21]. Figure 8 also shows the response
function for a screen-film system. Compared to the flat
detector, its range of linear response is rather limited. This
comparison demonstrates the advantage of flat detector
technology over the conventional method since a much
larger dose range can be addressed without risking wrong
exposures. This feature reduces the need for retakes sub-
stantially which is particularly handy if external dose sens-
ing devices are not available, for example in case of free
exposures. A word of caution, however, is necessary, as the
large dynamic range implies the risk to deliver higher dose
to patients than necessary. Therefore it is mandatory to
optimise the procedures in such a way that the right image
quality is provided at the lowest possible dose.
In vascular imaging or cardiac angiography, an even
broader dose range needs to be covered, ranging from very
low system dose levels of about 10 nGy in fluoroscopy to
much higher system dose levels of about 5 μGy in DSA
(digital subtraction angiography). The need for this large

dynamic range can be met by providing several detector
internal modes, each one with a different amplification
level at the input stage. The wide range of dose require-
ments is covered by selecting the detector mode which is
appropriate for the expected signal range of the respective
application.
Modulation transfer function
The MTF describes the detector’s ability to transfer the input
signal modulation of a given spatial frequency to its output.
When defining the modulation of a digital (pixelized) de-
tector one needs to take some care, as the measured modu-
lation depends on the phase shift between the input signal and
the pixel grid. Ambiguities are avoided by defining the pre-
sampling MTF, i.e. the modulation before sampling but after
convolution of the analog signal with the discrete sensor Fig. 7 Flat detector for radiographic applications with an active area
of 43×43 cm 2 and a pixel size of 143×143 μm 2 (Pixium 4600,
courtesy of Trixell, Moirans, France)
1938

structure [22, 23]. The limiting function of a sensor of finite
size is given by the Fourier transform of the pixel aperture a:
F f ð Þ ¼ sin af ð Þ
f ¼ a  sin c af ð Þ
commonly referred to as the “sinc-function”.
Figure 9 shows typical presampling MTFs for different
technologies used in general radiography. The MTFs for
screen-film systems and storage phosphor systems exhibit
similar values over the spatial frequency range [24, 25].
Indirect converting flat detectors, based on CsI, show an
improved MTF, particularly at higher spatial frequencies
[12, 26]. Due to some degree of light scatter in the CsI the
response function stays below the limiting sinc-function.
This built-in low pass behavior has some advantages as
described below. That feature applies to a much lesser ex-
tent to direct converting detectors based on a-Se where the
applied electric field forces the generated charge to be al-
most completely collected in the one pixel below. Con-
sequently, the MTF may come closer to the theoretical limit
[27].
One important aspect of screen-film systems is that each
sensitivity class (speed) matches a specific dose range. In-
creasing film speed, however, goes along with reduced
resolution. This feature does not apply to flat detectors as
their spatial resolution is—within their linear range—inde-
pendent of the applied dose level.
Another important parameter of a digital imaging system
is its limiting resolution. It is given by the Nyquist fre-
Fig. 8 Signal response of (1) a
flat detector for radiographic
applications with 14 bit analog-
to-digital conversion and of (2)
a screen–film system. For com-
parison, the electronic noise
level of the flat detector is
indicated as well
Fig. 9 Typical pre sampling
MTF curves for different X-ray
detectors used in general radi-
ography applications: (1) flat
detector with indirect conver-
sion based on CsI, (2) flat
detector with direct conversion
based on a-Se, (3) storage
phosphor with standard resolu-
tion and (4) screen–film system
1939

quency, defined as 1/2d where d is the distance between
two neighboring pixels. It represents the upper frequency
limit at which spatial structures can be detected and above
which aliasing effects occur. Aliasing not only effects the
signal but also the noise. Hence, a MTF which does not
reach the limit given by the sinc-function acts as a built-in
low-pass filter. This is the case for the most frequently used
scintillators such as CsI and Gd 2O 2S. The advantage is that
aliasing and therefore back-folding of noise from the fre-
quency region beyond the Nyquist frequency is partially
suppressed—an important aspect to reach high DQE values
at high spatial frequencies [28].
Detective quantum efficiency
DQE has become one of the fundamental physical param-
eters related to image quality [23, 29]. It refers to the
efficiency of a detector to convert the X-ray radiation signal
at its entrance window into a useful image signal. By
definition, DQE compares the SNR (signal-to-noise ratio)
at the detector output (digital signal) with that at the de-
tector input (X-ray flux at the entrance window) as a func-
tion of spatial frequency f [8]:
DQE f ð Þ ¼ SNR2 f ð Þout
SNR2 f ð Þin
¼ q2G2 MTF 2 f ð Þ
NPS f ð Þ
DQE(f) is derived from the measured quantities MTF(f),
noise power spectrum NPS(f), detector gain G, and the
calculated average input quanta per unit area q. Since the
SNR at the input corresponds to that of the ideal detector,
DQE can reach a maximum value of 1.0. In practice, how-
ever, DQE is limited by the energy dependent quantum
efficiency of the X-ray conversion layer.
Figure 10 shows DQEs for the most frequently used
technologies in general radiography. Screen-film [24] and
storage phosphor systems [25, 30] reach values between 20
and 30% at spatial frequencies below 1 lp/mm. Compared
to screen-film, however, storage phosphor systems show a
much more rapid fall-off at higher spatial frequencies.
Higher DQE values are reached with direct converting flat
detectors based on a-Se [27]. The highest DQE values,
however, are obtained with indirect converting flat detec-
tors based on CsI [12, 26]. Observer studies demonstrate
that the high DQE values reached with the indirect con-
verting flat detectors based on CsI correlate with (1) supe-
rior image quality (provided comparable system conditions
are given) [31, 32], and (2) the potential to reduce dose
without loss of image quality [33, 34], when compared to
other technologies.
DQE is largely governed by the absorption properties of
the converter material. Therefore it is worthwhile to briefly
review the most commonly used X-ray converter materials
for flat detectors in that respect. In what follows, quantum
efficiencies are calculated for a CsI layer of 600 μm and an
a-Se layer of 1000 μm (the thickest layers which have been
reported for a-Se). Furthermore, a filtration of 4 mm Al and
0.2 mm Cu and a simulated object of 200 mm of poly
(methyl methacrylate) are assumed. At 70 kVp quantum
efficiencies of 77 and 67% are reached for CsI and a-Se,
respectively. At higher peak voltages such as 120 kVp—
typical for thoracic imaging—the relative advantage for CsI
is even more pronounced. Here, quantum efficiencies of 52
and 37% are reached for CsI and a-Se, respectively.
In fluoroscopic imaging conditions very low signals have
to be detected. The signal competes against the statistical
noise as well as the additive electronic noise of the imaging
Fig. 10 DQE values of different
X-ray detectors for general ra-
diography: (1) flat detector with
indirect conversion based on
CsI, (2) flat detector with direct
conversion based on a-Se, (3)
storage phosphor with standard
resolution and (4) screen–film
system
1940

chain. Hence, high absorption as well as high gain are es-
sential under these circumstances. As these properties are in
favor of CsI, this material qualifies particularly well for
fluoroscopic imaging.
At the low end of the clinically relevant X-ray spectrum,
a-Se has better absorption properties than CsI (see Fig. 4).
This makes a-Se the ideal detector material for mammog-
raphy, leading to the highest DQE. This statement is re-
flected by measurement results for two flat detectors,
currently available with these two competing X-ray con-
version materials. A detector based on a-Se/a-Si [35]—
featuring a pixel size of 70 μm which corresponds to a
Nyquist frequency of 7.2 lp/mm—exhibits significantly
higher DQE values over the whole spatial frequency range
than a detector based on CsI/a-Si [36] which has a pixel size
of 100 μm, corresponding to a Nyquist frequency of 5 lp/mm.
Image lag
Image lag (sometimes called memory effect) may cause an
increase in dark current and cause a reminiscent image after
exposure [37]. This phenomenon results from the release of
charge after the termination of the X-ray exposure: the
charge which was trapped in metastable band-gap states in
the a-Si active matrix or a-Se converter material during
exposure is released afterwards slowly over time. Hence,
lag is usually measured in subsequent non-exposed images
as a function of elapsed time after an exposure or a series of
exposures. The lag requirements on flat detectors built for
real-time applications are high, as such detectors have to
switch from high dose operations (e.g. DSA) to fluoro-
scopic dose levels within a very short time interval of about
1 s. As of today, the lowest values for lag are reached with
the indirect converting flat detectors.
For a CsI/a-Si-based indirect converting flat detector
designed for cardiac angiography—similar in technology
as the one shown in Fig. 7—lag is measured to be about
0.3% after 1 s and below 0.04% after 10 s, using a detector
mode with an integration time of 15 ms.
In comparison, lag values of about 6% after 1 s and
around 1% after 10 s are reported for a direct converting flat
detector based on a-Se/a-Si, applying similar integration
times of 20 ms [38]. Such a high level of lag not only makes
recursive offset subtraction methods necessary which may
cut the effective frame rate of the system in half as every
second frame is used for offset update. It also reduces the
available dynamic range.
Advances in X-ray applications by flat detectors
Flat detectors play a central role in the evolution of diag-
nostic and interventional techniques in X-ray imaging. The
advances fostered by flat detectors include improved image
quality, new and better image processing techniques, true
workflow-orientation and novel interventional techniques
which use magnetic fields. The following sections provide
an overview of the impact of flat detectors on workflow,
progress in general radiography and mammography due to
digital imaging processing, and new applications in real-
time imaging (fluoroscopy and angiography).
Impact of flat detectors on workflow
A workflow-oriented environment requires several compo-
nents which are well interwoven. Prerequisites are a RIS
(radiology information system) and a PACS (picture archiv-
ing and communication system) environment, and an X-ray
system that fully utilizes and supports both data infrastruc-
tures of the hospital. In this scenario, flat detector tech-
nology provides the missing link to support a fully digital
environment.
Radiography which was—and to a large part still is—
dominated by analog screen-film systems particularly prof-
its from these developments. The following is a sketch of the
steps that are necessary to establish a smooth workflow for a
digital general purpose radiography system: A work list
provided by the RIS is automatically loaded at the system’s
acquisition station. As soon as the correct patient name is
selected from the work list, the corresponding examination
is predefined and the system automatically starts the appro-
priate setup: the correct detector is selected (if the system
includes more than one detector), tube and detector are
moved to a predefined position in accordance to the first
examination, the generator data and the tube collimators are
preset, and the detector is prepared for acquisition. All of the
necessary pre- and post-processing functions and parameters
are also preselected. All of this takes place in the background
while the patient is being positioned on the table or in front
of the dedicated upright stand. As soon as the X-ray expo-
sure has been taken the image is automatically processed and
displayed immediately on the check monitor. In the mean-
time the system automatically selects the various predefined
parameters for the next examination on the work list. Once
all of the images have been acquired, they are automatically
sent to the PACS and made available to all networked hospi-
tal departments or even to remote experts via teleradiology.
Workflow-oriented radiography systems based on flat de-
tectors have been shown to reduce substantially the overall
time required for nearly all examinations when compared to
screen-film and storage phosphor based systems [39]. They
thus play a central role in improving productivity in the ra-
diology department.
Image processing techniques in general
radiography and mammography
Image processing techniques provide the potential to im-
prove image quality and to give way to new applications.
1941

Three main areas can be distinguished: (1) optimised pro-
cessing of single images to improve image quality, (2) syn-
thesis of several images to enhance diagnostic content, and
(3) automatic extraction of diagnostically important features.
The processing of single images takes a key position in
digital radiography (Fig. 11) and mammography (Fig. 12).
The diagnostic content of a digital image can be extracted
in a way that is not accessible by analog film. Whereas flat
detectors may cover a large dynamic range of, for example,
14 bits, the human eye cannot differentiate more than 7–8
bits of grey levels. Therefore an adequate reduction in the
dynamics of the image signal is an important part of image
processing. Also, techniques which enhance resolution or
reduce noise are important features of image processing.
Basic operations that meet these requirements include
– Dynamic range rescaling by an appropriate setting of
the grey-scale window and level values. Segmentation
techniques are used to remove unnecessary information
by detecting the areas which are either subject to direct
radiation or which are defined by the projected col-
limator. The resulting signal histogram, containing only
the signal data of the object, is used to set appropriate
window and level values or to extract other relevant
information
– Grey scale mapping with non-linear characteristic func-
tions to increase contrast in the region of interest while
reducing it in other areas of lesser interest
– Dynamic range or density compression, defined in its
simplest form by subtracting a given percentage of the
low-pass filtered image (using very large filter kernels)
from the original image. This technique allows one, for
instance, to display the lung and the mediastinum of a
thoracic image with high contrast. Similarly, this pro-
cedure lends itself to ideally display the chest wall and
skin area of a mammogram simultaneously
– Edge enhancement, a filtration method which improves
the fine details of objects by applying a small kernel
high-pass filter to the original image
– Multi-frequency filter techniques are a more general
approach and may combine contrast enhancement, res-
olution improvements and noise reduction at the same
time in the appropriate areas of the image. Here, the
image is divided into several spatial frequency domains.
Optimised filters are used in each frequency band, be-
fore the image is reconstructed. In addition, the filter pa-
rameters may be linked to the local image signal which
may further improve the presentation of the diagnostic
image content to the radiologist’s eyes
Valuable additional information may be gained when syn-
thesizing several images into one or several new images.
Fig. 12 Image examples of lateral mammograms acquired with a
MAMMOMAT Novation (Siemens)
Fig. 11 Image examples of a an upper arm, b a skull and c a thorax a.p. acquired with an AXIOM Aristos MX system for general
radiography (Siemens)
1942

Image stitching is one such method which is used to create
a new image larger than the detector area. Some of the
applications, in particular full body scans of the upright
standing patient, may require very fast consecutive image
acquisitions because in most cases one is confronted with
elderly and weaker patients. The flat detector’s capability to
support fast repetitive image acquisitions plays an essential
role in such a procedure. To this end, several consecutive
X-ray exposures are taken of the object so that a small
overlap area between two neighboring images exists. The
overlapping areas of the X-ray exposures are used by the
image processing software to create seamless junctions. In
this way, the complete spinal column or the entire skeleton
can be displayed via a composed image. Special orthopedic
image processing software allows to accurately measure
and diagnose bone defects.
Another technique is the dual energy method which takes
advantage of the energy dependence of the mass absorption
coefficient. Here, two X-ray images are gathered, using
very different X-ray spectra. By adequate linear super-
position of the images, different types of tissue may be
displayed selectively. Again, flat detectors are ideally suited
for this application as they allow acquisition of the two
images within a very short time interval which helps to keep
motion artefacts at a low level. In thoracic diagnostics, for
example, the soft tissue (lung parenchyma, mediastinum) or
the structures containing calcium (bone, calcifications) may
be displayed separately. This method may prove advanta-
geous for displaying tumors. Whether or not it will have a
future is open-ended, since computed tomography repre-
sents a superior and well-established alternative for this
kind of application.
Quasi 3D information can be achieved by digital tomo-
synthesis [40]. With this technique one acquires a series of
projection images (typically 10–30) in a given angular
range (e.g. −20 to +20°). In a post-processing step these
images are used to reconstruct the 3D data set, applying
similar algorithms as the ones used in computed tomogra-
phy. Here, though, the spatial resolution in the direction
normal to the detector is much lower than in the directions
parallel to the detector plane. Presently, the main focus of
applications is on mammography with the goal to visualize
the 3D spatial distribution of calcifications and to improve
the detectability of masses. Other applications in general
radiography may include the diagnosis of arthritis in finger
joints or lung nodules.
In the future, CAD (computer aided detection) methods

will play a more and more important role of feature ex-
traction from individual images. One such application is the
detection of tumors in thoracic images. To date, however, it
is difficult to say how long it will take until established
methods are available, especially in view of the complexity
involved in detecting tumors in thoracic radiographs [41].
For digital mammography, the breakthrough of CAD meth-
ods is closer to reality and may even accelerate its accep-
tance. CAD systems, known to supply consistent quality
(parameters—humans are influenced by—such as the time
of day or the work load, do not exist for such systems) have
continuously shown improved sensitivity and specificity
over the past years. Although this topic is still discussed
controversially [42], there is no doubt that in taking the role
of a “second opinion”, the technology very efficiently sup-
ports radiologists in their diagnosis.
New applications in angiography and fluoroscopy
Real-time X-ray imaging systems are used for a wide spec-
trum of clinical applications. Such systems range from
mobile X-ray systems for surgery and over- and undertable
fluoroscopy systems (e.g. for examinations of the gastro-
intestinal tract) to angiography systems equipped for the
diagnosis of vessel pathologies and minimally invasive treat-
ment. Moreover, the field of angiography includes special
systems for cardiology and neurology.
The image intensifier which has been the technology of
choice for these systems has matured over the past decades
allowing for high-quality X-ray examinations and inter-
ventions. The X-ray dose required for examinations or in-
terventions was successively reduced, decreasing at the same
time the X-ray exposure to both patient and user. Therefore,
all new detector technologies are measured against the
level of quality standard established by image intensifiers.
However, image intensifier technology also has a number
of disadvantages. The mapping of the convex input screen
onto the planar output fluorescent screen leads to image
distortions especially along the rim of the image and con-
sequently to non-homogeneous image quality across the
image. Scatter processes of light and electrons within the
image intensifier limit the coarse contrast resolution (veil-
ing glare). Yet another critical point with large image in-
tensifier formats is patient access as well as the flexibility
during angulation of the image intensifier at the C-arm due
to the large size and depth of the vacuum tube. Also, the
amplification principle of image intensifiers based on in-
ternal electric fields prohibits their usage in the vicinity of
strong magnetic fields. Finally, large-format image intensi-
fiers did not succeed in replacing screen-film bucky trays in
fluoroscopy systems to cover radiography applications. The
reasons for this being the round image format, the large
depth of the image intensifier tube, and a limited DQE at the
high exposure levels required for radiographic exposures.
Flat detectors for real-time imaging [11, 43–47] either
avoid or at least reduce some of the disadvantages of im-
age intensifiers. The most important technical advantages
of flat detectors are summarized below:
– Homogeneous image quality across the entire image
area resulting in distortion-free images and position-
independent spatial resolution
– High “low contrast resolution”
1943

– High DQE across all dose levels, particularly for CsI/
aSi-based flat detectors
– High dynamic range, covering all dose levels from
fluoroscopy to DSA
– Square or rectangular active areas which, together with
the flat and compact design, improve the accessibility
of the patient
– Compatibility with environments where strong mag-
netic fields are required
These advantages suggest that X-ray systems with flat
detectors have the potential to improve further the existing
applications and give way to new diagnostic and interven-
tional techniques. The following three examples shall un-
derline this statement.
The improved detectability of small structures such as
the tip of the catheter due to increased contrast resolution
may lead to shorter examination times. This in turn should
reduce the integrated applied dose. In cardiac angiography
the improved visibility of stents allows, for example, to
use hand injections of contrast medium for left ventricu-
lograms, which reduces the contrast medium load for the
patient.
3D views of body regions generate additional informa-
tion for diagnosis and facilitate orientation during inter-
ventions. Today 3D visualization is a standard feature for
interventions in neuroradiology. The treatment of aneu-
rysms and arteriovenous malformations through coils or
other embolization methods has been in use for years, using
image intensifier based X-ray systems. These methods,
however, will largely benefit from flat detectors due to the
rectangular image format, the high spatial resolution and
the distortion-free images. The high dynamic range and the
good contrast resolution will enable to enhance the soft
tissue resolution and may allow to probe into some of the
classic applications of computed tomography.
The flat detectors’ compatibility with strong magnetic
fields supports magnetic catheter navigation which is a
Fig. 13 Highly symptomatic patient with three stenoses beyond a
previous vein graft in the right coronary artery (RCA) and associated
vessels. Angiograms acquired with an AXIOM Artis dFC Magnetic
Navigation (Siemens). a Angiography with all three lesions iden-
tified: (1) at graft anastomosis, (2) in the posterior lateral artery
(PLA) and (3) in the RCA very close to the bifurcation. b Wire
turning retrograde into RCA out of veingraft. c Wire bending from
RCA into acute marginal branch without removing wire for re-
shaping. d Wire anchored in acute marginal branch. e Balloon at
third lesion in the RCA very close to the bifurcation. Wire anchored
into distal acute marginal branch. f Post-PTCA of all three lesions
1944

unique new technology platform for electrophysiology and
interventional cardiology [48]. With the help of two mag-
nets, providing a magnetic field of up to 0.1 Tesla, the
clinician can accurately navigate catheters and guidewires
through the vessels and the chambers of the heart. Rotating
the magnets independently changes the local magnetic field
at the position of the catheter whose tip is equipped with a
tiny magnet. As a result, the catheter changes orientation
into the desired direction within the vascular tree. The
guiding is supported by the flat detector which is used to
acquire two perpendicular X-ray projection images show-
ing the catheter and the vessel structure. By drawing the
new intended direction of the catheter directly onto the
projection images, the new required local magnetic field
can be calculated and set up by moving the magnets into
their new positions. This allows to perform difficult navi-
gation tasks such as moving along a calcified vessel which
can now be performed with softer catheters minimizing the
traumatization of the vessel, changing direction at a bi-
furcation (in particular if the branch point itself is stenosed),
or other hard-to-navigate sections in the vascular or cardiac
system.
This method may revolutionize the work of cardiologists
and radiologists in the near future. Several applications are
in the focus of interest. One problem which can be ad-
dressed with the new technology is the chronic blockage of
the cardiac vasculature, which so far has always fallen into
the domain of cardiac surgery. With the new system, open-
ing the chronic total occlusion may be addressed without
surgery. Figure 13 shows a case of a highly symptomatic
patient with three stenoses beyond a previous vein graft in
the right coronary artery and associated vessels. That
patient was treated by magnetically guided PTCA (percu-
taneous transluminal coronary angiography) of the three
stenoses in the right coronary artery. Another disease to be
addressed is complex arrhythmia, such as fibrillation in the
left atrium. Here, the system is used to apply radiofre-
quency ablation of the arrhythmogenic tissue in the atrium.
A further area of focus is in the field of serious cardiac
insufficiencies where pacemakers are used to stimulate both
chambers of the heart. With this new technology, present
problems to navigate the probe electrodes into the optimum
positions through the veins may be overcome. An even
other field may be applications where medical devices such
as drug-eluting stents need to be placed at small and tor-
tuous side-branches, requiring support by magnetic assisted
navigation.
Future developments
The exciting technology of flat detectors is subject to con-
tinuous further development and improvement. Miniatur-
ized electronics allow for even flatter and lighter detectors
required for mobile or portable applications. External cool-
ing, still needed in some real-time applications today, will
be overcome in the future.
Another area of progress relates to the improvement of
the signal-to-noise ratio. This can be obtained through ver-
tical pixel structures. In case of indirectly converting flat
detectors the photodiode and switching transistors are stacked
on top of each other instead of being located next to each
other as in present and past designs. With such a “maximum
fill-factor” approach, the active area of the photodiode is
enlarged, allowing to detect nearly all of the generated
optical photons and therefore maximizing the signal. The
objective of developing new direct conversion materials
such as lead iodide, cadmium telluride or mercuric iodide is
to improve the absorption characteristics and the overall
signal in order to enhance signal-to-noise, resolution and in
consequence DQE. Higher bit depths of 16 or 18 bits could
improve 3D applications, allowing to probe further into
the domain of computed tomography which is the prime
standard for low contrast X-ray imaging today.
In the future, pixel arrays based on CMOS (complemen-
tary metal oxide semiconductor) technology may be the
basis for further progress. Several steps can be envisioned.
In the integrating domain, pixel structures including a
photodiode and a switch transistor (indirect conversion) or
an electrode plus switch transistor (direct conversion) are
straight forward designs. Including an amplification stage
for each pixel is an improvement which helps to increase
the signal-to-noise ratio. One step further could involve
counting structures, where each absorbed X-ray quantum
is detected individually and registered accordingly. Meth-
ods of this kind would allow to generate a quasi noise-free
signal processing chain; only quantum statistics would re-
main as the sole contributor of noise. Photon counting has
already been demonstrated for mammography [49], even
though this approach does not involve a full field detector
but a linear detector in a scanning mode. If in addition to
counting the quanta, the X-ray’s energy were detected as
well, it would be possible to imagine new applications
based on energy discriminating methods (“color imaging”).
Each new development, be it technical or application-
oriented, will be ultimately judged on the basis of its benefit
for the patient or the treating physician. Some of the key
factors determining the criteria will be workflow, image
quality and a careful usage of dose.
Acknowledgements The author would like to thank Prof. G.
Marchal (University Hospitals Leuven, Belgium) for providing the
radiographic images. The mammograms are courtesy of Dr. R.
Schulz-Wendtland (University of Erlangen, Germany). Dr. R. Meese
(Mother Frances Hospital, Tyler, Texas, USA) provided the case
using magnetic navigation techniques. Also special thanks goes to Dr.
P. Bernhardt who provided the simulated data on quantum efficiencies
and to Dr. T. Mertelmeier for his suggestions and availability for
fruitful discussions.
1945

References
1. Antonuk LE (1993) Thin-film, flat
imagers—a coming revolution in
megavoltage and diagnostic imaging?
Phys Med 9:63–68
2. Chabbal J, Chaussat C, Ducourant T,
Fritsch L, Michailos J, Spinnler V,
Vieux G, Arques M, Hahm G,
Hoheisel M, Horbaschek H, Schulz R,
Spahn M (1996) Amorphous silicon X-
ray image sensor. Proc SPIE
2708:499–510
3. Lee DL, Cheung LK, Jeromin LS
(1995) A new detector for projection
radiography. Proc SPIE 2432:237–249
4. Street RA (2000) Technology and
applications of amorphous Silicon.
Springer Series in Material Science.
Springer, Berlin Heidelberg New York,
pp 47–221
5. Weisfield RL, Hartney M, Schneider
R, Alfatooni K, Lujan R (1999) High
performance amorphous silicon image
sensor for X-ray diagnostic medical
imaging applications. Proc SPIE
3659:307–317
6. Zhao W, Rowlands JA (1995) X-ray
imaging using amorphous selenium:
feasibility of a flat self-scanned
detector for digital radiology. Med
Phys 22:1595–1604
7. Noel A, Thibault F (2004) Digital
detectors for mammography: the
technical challenges. Eur Radiol
14:1990–1998
8. Beutel J, Kundel HL, Van Metter RL
(2000) Handbook of medical imaging.
Vol. 1: Physics and Psychophysics.
SPIE Press
9. Antonuk LE, El-Mohri Y, Siewerdsen
JH, Yorkston J, Huang W, Scarpine
VE, Street RA (1997) Empirical
investigation of the signal performance
of a high-resolution, indirect detection,
active matrix flat imager (AMFPI) for
fluoroscopic and radiographic
operation. Med Phys 24:51–70
10. Chaussat C, Chabbal J, Ducourant T,
Spinnler V, Vieux G, Neyret R (1998)
New CsI/a-Si 17″×17″ X-ray flat
detector provides superior detectivity
and immediate direct digital output for
General Radiography systems. Proc
SPIE 3336:45–56
11. Granfors PR, Albagli D, Tkaczyk JE,
Aufrichtig R, Netel H, Brunst G,
Boudry J, Luo D (2001) Performance
of a flat cardiac detector. Proc SPIE
4320:77–86
12. Spahn M, Strotzer M, Völk M, Böhm
S, Geiger B, Hahm G, Feuerbach S
(2000) Digital radiography with a
large-area, amorphous-silicon, flat
X-ray detector system. Invest Radiol
35:260–266
13. Yamazaki T, Tamura T, Nokita M,
Okada S, Hayashida S, Ogawa Y
(2004) Perforamance of a novel 43-
cm×43-cm flat-panel detector with CsI:
Tl scintillator. Proc SPIE 5368:379–
385
14. Mainprize JG, Hunt DC, Yaffe MJ
(2002) Direct conversion detectors: the
effect of incomplete charge collection
on detective quantum efficiency. Med
Phys 29:976–990
15. Simon M, Ford RA, Franklin AR,
Grabowski SP, Menser B, Much G,
Nascetti M, Overdick M, Wiechert DU
(2004) PbO as direct conversion X-ray
detector material. Proc SPIE
3659:188–199
16. Street RA, Ready SE, Melekhov L,
Ho J, Zuck A, Breen B (2002)
Approaching the theoretical X-ray
sensitivity with HgI2 direct detection
image sensors. Proc SPIE 4682:
414–422
17. Polischuk B, Rougeot H, Kerwin W,
Debrie A, Poloquin E, Hansroul M,
Martin JP, Truong TT, Choquette M,
Laperrière L, Shukri Z (1999) Direct
conversion detector for digital
mammography. Proc SPIE 3859:417–
425
18. Kasap SO, Rowlands JA (2002)
Direct-conversion flat X-ray image
sensors for digital radiography. IEEE
90:591–604
19. Stone MF, Zhao W, Jacak BV,
O’Connor P, Yu B, Rehak P (2002)
The X-ray sensitivity of amorphous
selenium for mammography. Med
Phys 29:319–324
20. Völk M, Strotzer M, Holzknecht N,
Manke C, Lenhart M, Gmeinwieser J,
Link J, Reiser M, Feuerbach S (2000)
Digital radiography of the skeleton
using a large-area detector based on
amorphous silicon technology: image
quality and potential for dose reduction
in comparison with screen-film
radiography. Clin Radiol 55:615–621
21. Völk M, Strotzer M, Gmeinwieser J,
Alexander J, Fründ R, Seitz J, Manke
C, Spahn M, Feuerbach S (1997) Flat
X-ray detector using amorphous
silicon technology: reduced radiation
dose for the detection of foreign
bodies. Invest Radiol 32:373–377
22. Dobbins JT III (1995) Effects of
undersampling on the proper
interpretation of modulation transfer
function, noise power spectra, and
noise equivalent quanta of digital
imaging systems. Med Phys 22:171–
181
23. Stierstorfer K, Spahn M (1999) Self-
normalizing method to measure the
detective quantum efficiency of a wide
range of X-ray detectors. Med Phys
26:1312–1319
24. Van Metter R, Dickerson R (1994)
Objective performance characteristics
of a new asymmetric screen-film
system. Med Phys 21:1483–1490
25. Dobbins JT III, Ergun DL, Rutz L,
Hinshaw DA, Blume H, Clark DC
(1995) DQE(f) of four generations of
computed radiography acquisition
devices. Med Phys 22:1581–1593
26. Granfors PR, Aufrichtig R (2000)
DQE(f) of an amorphous Silicon flat
X-ray detector: detector parameter
influences and measurement
methodology (2000) Proc SPIE
3977:2–13
27. Lee DL, Cheung LK, Rodricks B,
Powell GF (1998) Improved imaging
performance of a 14×17-inch Direct
Radiography system using Se/TFT
detector. Proc SPIE 3336:14–23
28. Moy JP (1998) Image quality of
scintillator based X-ray electronic
imagers. Proc SPIE 3336:187–194
29. Metz CE, Wagner RF, Doi K, Brown
DG, Nishikawa RM, Myers KJ (1995)
Towards consensus on quantitative
assessment of medical imaging
systems. Med Phys 22:1057–1061
30. Nakano Y, Gido T, Honda S, Maezawa
A, Wakamatsu H, Yanagita T (2002)
Improved computed radiography
image quality from a BaFl:Eu
photostimulable phosphor plate. Med
Phys 29:592–597
31. Hamers S, Freyschmidt J, Neitzel U
(2001) Digital radiography with a
large-scale electronic flat-panel
detector vs screen-film radiography:
observer preference in clinical skeletal
diagnostics. Eur Radiol 11:1753–1759
32. Kotter E, Langer M (2002) Digital
radiography with large-area flat-panel
detectors. Eur Radiol 12:2562–2570
33. Völk M, Hamer OW, Feuerbach S,
Strotzer M (2004) Dose reduction in
skeletal and chest radiography using a
large-area flat-panel detector based on
amorphous silicon and thallium-doped
cesium iodide: technical background,
basic image quality parameters, and
review of the literature. Eur Radiol
14:827–834
34. Ludwig K, Henschel A, Bernhardt TM,

Lenzen H, Wormanns D, Diederich S,
Heindel W (2003) Performance of a
flat-panel detector in the detection of
artificial erosive changes: comparison
with conventional screen-film and
storage-phosphor radiography. Eur
Radiol 13:1316–1323
35. Yorker JG, Jeromin LS, Lee DLY,
Palecki EF, Golden KP, Jing Z (2002)
Characterization of a full field
mammography detector based on
direct X-ray conversion in selenium.
Proc SPIE 4682:21–29
1946

36. Vedantham S, Karellas A,
Suryanarayanan S et al. (2000) Full
breast digital mammography with an
amorphous silicon-based flat panel
detector: physical characterization of a
clinical prototype. Med Phys 27:558–
567
37. Yorkston J (2004) Specifications,
performance evaluation, and quality
assurance of radiographic and
fluoroscopic systems in the digital era.
AAPM Summer School Proceedings.
Medical Physics Monograph No.
30:177–228
38. Loustauneau V, Bissonnette M,
Cadieux S, Hansroul M, Masson E,
Savard S, Polischuk B (2004) Ghosting
comparison for large-area selenium
detectors suitable for mammography
and general radiography. Proc SPIE
5368:162–169
39. DeMaster DR (2001) Digital
radiography offers major productivity
gains over computed radiography:
results of time–motion study. Appl
Radiol 30:28–31
40. Dobbins JT III, Godfrey DJ (2003)
Digital X-ray tomosynthesis: current
state of the art and clinical potential.
Phys Med Biol 48:R65–R106
41. Van Ginneken B, ter Haar Romeny
BM, Viergever MA (2001) Computer-
aided diagnosis in chest radiography: a
survey. IEEE 20:1228–1241
42. Hendee WR (1999) In the next decade
automated computer analysis will be
an accepted sole method to separate
“normal” from “abnormal”
radiological images. Med Phys 26:1–4
43. Bruijns T, Bastiaens R, Hoornart B,
von Reth E, Busse F, Heer V,
Ducourant T, Cowen A, Davies A,
Terrier F (2002) Image quality of a
large area dynamic flat detector:
comparison with a state of the art II/TV
system. Proc SPIE 4682:332–343
44. Busse F, Rütten W, Sandkamp B,
Alving PL, Bastiaens R, Ducourant T
(2002) Design and performance of a
high-quality cardiac flat detector. Proc
SPIE 4682:819–827
45. Choquette M, Demers Y, Shukri Z,
Tousignant O, Aoki K, Honda M,
Takahashi A, Tsukamoto A (2001)
Real time performance of a selenium-
based detector for fluoroscopy. Proc
SPIE 4320:501–508
46. Colbeth RE, Boyce S, Fong R, Gray K,
Harris R, Job ID, Mollov I, Nepo B,
Pavkovich J, Taie-Nobarie N, Seppi
EJ, Shapiro EG, Wright MD, Webb C,
Yu JM (2001) 40×30 cm 2 flat imager
for angiography, R&F and cone-beam
CT applications. Proc SPIE 4320:94–
102
47. Suzuki K, Ikeda S, Ishikawa K, Iinuma
G, Ogasawara S, Moriyama N, Konno
Y (2002) Development and evaluation
of a digital radiography system using a
large-area flat detector. Proc SPIE
4682:363–370
48. Faddis MN, Blume W, Finney J, Hall
A, Rauch J, Sell J, Bae KT, Talcott M,
Lindsay B (2002) Novel, magnetically
guided catheter for endocardial
mapping and radiofrequency catheter
ablation. Circulation 106:2980–2985
49. Lundqvist M, Danielsson M,
Cederström B, Chmill V, Chuntonov
A, Aslund M (2003) Measurements on
a full-field digital mammography
system with a photon counting
crystalline silicon detector. Proc SPIE
5030:547–552
1947
