queueId: ingest-1781569954420-188p
sourcePath: raw/sources/DHF (인허가)/01_HAD1717MC, MG/05_설계개발 검증 및 유효성 확인/11_Clinical Evaluation/LITERATURE/1. Development of a Digital X-ray Imaging Module.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/DHF (인허가)/_combined/ade609d428ca/1. Development of a Digital X-ray Imaging Module__ade609d428ca_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: d6c23cb89bf5
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: general
pilotRank: 261

SOURCE_TEXT
Journal of the Korean Physical Society, Vol. 46, No. 5, May 2005, pp. 1096∼1101
Development of a Digital X-ray Imaging Module for Portable
High-Resolution Imaging Applications
Hyosung Cho and Manhee Jeong
Department of Radiological Science and Basic Atomic Energy Research Institute, Yonsei University, Wonju 220-710
Sin Kim
Department of Nuclear & Energy Engineering, Jeju National University, Cheju 690-756
Bongsoo Lee∗
School of Biomedical Engineering, Konkuk University, Chungju 380-701
(Received 19 January 2005, in final form 10 March 2005)
We have developed a digital X-ray imaging module based on a CMOS photosensor array for
portable high-resolution imaging applications and evaluated its image performance. The imaging
module consists of a commercially-available CMOS photosensor array with a 48 μm × 48 μm
pixel size and a 49.2 mm × 49.3 mm active area, a conventional Gd2O2S:Tb scintillator (Min-R,
Kodak), a controlling readout IC board, a battery-operated X-ray generator (60 kVp, < 1 mA), and
GUI software. In this paper, we describe in detail the digital imaging components we integrated,
and present a performance evaluation in terms of the system response, the contrast-to-noise ratio
(CNR), the modulation transfer function (MTF), the noise power spectrum (NPS), and the detective
quantum efficiency (DQE).
PACS numbers: 29.40.Mc; 29.40.Wk
Keywords: CMOS photosensor array, Digital radiography, X-ray imaging, Image performance
I. INTRODUCTION
In recent years, digital radiography (DR) technol-
ogy, compared with conventional film/screen technology,
has gained popularity in many medical and industrial
applications owing to a number of useful capabilities,
such as electronic archiving, real-time acquisition, post-
processing, and easy image storage and retrieval. In
addition, digital X-ray imaging sensors have started to
come of age over the past few years, and many efforts
have been focused on X-ray imaging sensors with bet-
ter image performance. Although some of those efforts
have addressed amorphous silicon (a-Si) or amorphous
selenium (a-Se) flat panel detectors [1,2], most imaging
systems to date feature a charge-coupled device (CCD)
due to its high resolution, high sensitivity, and low noise
[3,4]. However, CCD sensors are sensitive to radiation-
induced damage, and their production requires a spe-
cialized process that adds to their development cost [5].
As an alternative, the use of complementary-metal-oxide
semiconductor (CMOS) sensors is changing the way dig-
ital imaging is performed for many applications. The
∗E-mail: bslee@kku.ac.kr;
Tel:+82-43-840-3755; Fax:+82-43-851-0620
replacement of CCD sensors with CMOS ones for digi-
tal X-ray imaging applications is a desirable technique
shift due to their inherent characteristics of lower power
consumption, lower cost, and, most importantly, higher
system integration such as on-chip analog-to-digital con-
version (ADC) circuits [6]. The achievement of both low
power consumption and low cost is highly desirable for
portable applications, such as those required for emer-
gency medical vehicles and remote sites. In this paper,
we describe in detail the digital X-ray imaging compo-
nents we integrated, and we evaluate their performance
in terms of the system response, the contrast-to-noise ra-
tio (CNR), the modulation transfer function (MTF), the
noise power spectrum (NPS), and the detective quantum
efficiency (DQE).
II. SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
A schematic illustration of our fully-integrated
portable digital X-ray imaging system based on a CMOS
photosensor array is shown in Fig. 1. The imaging sys-
tem consists of a CMOS photosensor array directly cou-
pled with a Gd2O2S : Tb scintillator, a readout IC board,
a battery-operated X-ray generator, and GUI software.
-1096-

Development of a Digital X-ray Imaging Module· · · – Hyosung Cho et al. -1097-
Fig. 1. Schematic illustration of the fully-integrated
portable digital X-ray imaging system based on a CMOS pho-
tosensor array coupled with a Min-R scintillator.
Fig. 2. Examples of X-ray images acquired by using our
prototype portable X-ray imaging system: (a) CPU socket
and (b) carpal bone.
Fig. 2 shows examples of X-ray images acquired by us-
ing our prototype X-ray imaging system: (a) CPU socket
and (b) carpal bone.
1. CMOS Photosensor Array
As a digital X-ray imaging sensor, a commercially-
available CMOS photosensor array (RadEyeT M 2) of pre-
mium grade (no line defect) was introduced to our imag-
ing system [7]. It contained dual silicon photodiode ar-
rays with a pixel size of 48 μm and 512 × 1024 pixel
matrix, along with associated circuitry for scanning and
readout. The photodiode arrays were directly coupled
with a 46.3-μm-thick Gd2O2S : Tb scintillator (Min-R,
Kodak). Min-R is well known to have the physical prop-
erties of high atomic number and density (coverage ∼ 34
mg/cm2), and thus to have efficient light production (∼
22,400 photons/MeV) [8]. Fig. 3 shows the timing di-
agram of the RadEyeT M 2 CMOS photosensor array for
its signal control. As Fig. 3 shows, the RadEyeT M 2
is controlled with four signal inputs (pixel clock, frame,
line, and start) and provides differential high-speed video
signals from two video outputs.
Fig. 3. Timing diagram of the CMOS photosensor array
for its signal control.
Fig. 4. Block diagram of the prototype readout IC board
for the digital X-ray image system.
2. Readout IC Board
We also developed a prototype readout IC board for
the RadEyeT M 2 sensor module. The IC board consists of
an amplifier (AD8022) for buffering and amplifying small
image signals, an analog-to-digital converter (ADS805E,
12 bit, 20 MHz), and components for image signal con-
trol and transmission. The acquired image data were
controlled by using a FPGA control chip (ACEX, Al-
tera) and were stored into a SRAM memory (512 kBx4,
Samsung Electronics). An USB chip (FT245BM, 1-MB
Fig. 5. Prototype IC board for readout electronics and in-
terfacing between the RadEyeT M 2 sensor module and a lap-
top.

-1098- Journal of the Korean Physical Society, Vol. 46, No. 5, May 2005
data-transfer rate) was also used for interfacing between
the RadEyeT M 2 sensor module and a laptop. Fig. 4
and 5 show a block diagram and a photography of the
prototype readout IC board for our imaging system, re-
spectively.
3. Battery-operated X-ray Generator
A battery-operated X-ray generator was also devel-
oped in our R & D and was incorporated in our imaging
system for potential application as a portable digital X-
ray imaging device for use in emergency medical vehicles
or at remote sites. It consists of an X-ray tube (20 ∼ 60
kVp, < 1 mA, 800-μm focal size) and a battery-operated
(16 V, 6 A) HVPS (high-voltage power supply) mod-
ule. A detailed description of the X-ray generator will
be given in a separate paper.
4. GUI Software
The image data, acquired with an 8-bit grayscale for-
mat, are transferred through the USB port into the GUI
software that we coded. A correction algorithm is then
applied to the data in order to achieve precise image ac-
quisition. In this study, the non-ideal properties of image
components, such as image sensor defects, mostly due to
bad pixels, and non-uniformity of pixel sensitivity, have
been compensated for. The compensation for bad pix-
els was performed in two steps. In the first step, the
positions for bad pixels were found with a 3 × 3 differ-
entiation operator. If the differentiation at a given pixel
was greater than a threshold value, the pixel was classi-
fied as a bad pixel. In the last step, the intensity value
at the bad pixel was determined by using a linear inter-
polation of nearby pixel values. For the non-uniformity
Fig. 6. Block diagram of the post-processing in our image
software.
Fig. 7. 3D graphs of (a) the raw image and (b) the com-
pensated image of the disk phantom applied for bad pixel and
non-uniformity corrections (x and y axes indicate the pixel
number, and the z axis indicates the gray scale).
Fig. 8. GUI environment for image acquisition and data
analysis.
compensation, we obtained both a white reference im-
age and a dark reference image, taking an average of five
images. After the reference images had been obtained,
the dark reference image was subtracted from the pro-
jection image data, and then the result was divided by
the white reference image. Fig. 6 shows a block dia-
gram of the post-processing in our image software, and
Fig. 7 shows the 3D graphs of (a) the raw image and
(b) the compensated image of the disk phantom used for

Development of a Digital X-ray Imaging Module· · · – Hyosung Cho et al. -1099-
Fig. 9. Photograph of the fully-integrated portable digital
radiographic system: a CMOS sensor, a readout IC board, a
battery-operated X-ray generator, and GUI software.
the bad pixel and the non-uniformity corrections. Here,
the x and the y axes indicate the pixel number, and the
z axis indicates the gray scale.
Fig. 8 shows the GUI environment for image acquisi-
tion and data analysis. In this GUI environment, image
manipulations, including interactive image contrast and
brightness control, zooming in on a region of interest
(ROI), spatial image filtering, and obtaining the image’s
histogram and its profile information, can be activated.
The prototype of the fully integrated portable digital X-
ray imaging modules we developed is shown in Fig. 9.
III. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
Performance evaluation for our digital X-ray imag-
ing system was performed with a 46.3-μm-thick Min-R
scintillator by using experimental measurements and ac-
quired X-ray images. The evaluation was done in terms
of the system response, the CNR, the MTF, the NPS,
and the DQE.
Fig. 10. System response curve measured for our image
system by using the Min-R scintillator
Fig. 11. CNR curve measured for our image system by
using the Min-R scintillator.
1. System Response
The system response was measured in the exposure
range of 15-150 mR by recording a mean pixel value from
the white image obtained at each exposure level. As Fig.
10 shows, the imaging system showed good system lin-
earity with exposure before reaching a saturation point
that depended on the scintillator speed (or thickness for
the same scintillator material). Better system linearity
is important to obtain a more accurate DQE.
2. Contrast-to-noise Ratio (CNR)
Noise in image, which means indeterminacy or inaccu-
racy in image signals, is typically divided into two types:
quantum mottle and electronic noise [9]. The former be-
comes manifest when the number of photons contributing
to image formation is small, and is dominant in our imag-
ing system. In order to evaluate the noise characteristics
of the system, we measured the CNR for an image ob-
tained from a circular test phantom (a 4-mm-thick, and
1-cm-diameter lead plate) at a tube voltage of 60 kVp by
dividing the average contrast over the ROI in the image
by the standard deviation of the background. As Fig. 11
shows, the measured CNR increased almost linearly with
exposure up to about 80 mR. The CNR will be improved
by using higher-speed scintillators due to more efficient
light production at a given exposure and by using a FOP
(fiber optic plate) coupled with a scintillator owing to its
optical characteristics of a significant reduction of direct
X-ray absorption in the CMOS sensor module, high light
collection, and high image transmitting ability.
3. Modulation Transfer Function (MTF)
One-dimensional presampled MTF was measured us-
ing the angled-edge technique to characterize the resolu-

-1100- Journal of the Korean Physical Society, Vol. 46, No. 5, May 2005
Fig. 12. MTF curve measured for our image system by
using the Min-R scintillator at a test condition of 60 kVp and
45.6 mR.
tion properties of the imaging system. The system MTF
can be obtained, as in Eq. (1), by Fourier transforming
(FT) the line spread function (LSF), which is the deriva-
tive of the edge spread function (ESF) obtained from an
edge image:
M T F (f ) = F T
[ d
dx [ESF (x)]
]
(1)
As Fig. 12 shows, the spatial frequency measured at
10 % MTF was about 9.0 LP/mm, which is about 10
% lower than for the ideal system (i.e., 10.0 LP/mm).
This may be somewhat due to light diffusion inside the
scintillator.
4. Noise Power Spectrum (NPS)
The system NPS was measured from uniformly irra-
diated radiographs by using a two-dimensional Fourier
analysis method. In this method, excluding the edge
portion of the images, the central portion of each image
was divided into multiple, non-overlapping regions of 128
× 128 pixels. The image data within each region were
converted to relative noise units by dividing the data by
its mean value, and the noise spectrum of relative fluc-
tuations within each region was computed by using a
two-dimensional fast Fourier transformation. The spec-
tra from all regions were averaged to obtain the overall
two-dimensional NPS, expressed as in Eqs. 2 and 3:
N P Sraw(u, ν) = < |F T (u, ν)|2 >
NxNy
∆x∆y (2)
N P Snormalized(u, ν) = N P Sraw(u, ν)
(Smean)2 (3)
where < |F T (u, ν)|2 > is the ensemble average of the
squares of the Fourier amplitudes from all ROIs, Nx and
Ny are the numbers of elements in the discrete Fourier
Fig. 13. One-dimensional NPS curve measured for our im-
age system by using the Min-R scintillator at a test condition
of 60 kVp and 45.6 mR.
transforms, ∆x and ∆y are the pixel sizes in the x and
the y directions, and Smean represents the mean signal of
the ROI. The values of the NPS in the horizontal and the
vertical directions were deduced by averaging the central
± 10 horizontal/vertical/diagonal lines in the 2D NPS.
As Fig. 13 shows, the 1D NPS (normalized) gradually
decrease with the spatial frequency, and the NPS value
at zero frequency was about 4.4 × 10−5. The 1D NPS(0)
value will be improved for a lower-speed scintillator due
to less photon production and, thus, increased quantum
noise.
5. Detective Quantum Efficiency (DQE)
The detective quantum efficiency for the system was
deduced from the measured MTF, NPS, and exposure,
X, along with an estimated value for the ideal SNR2 per
mR (q), as described in Eq. 4:
DQE(f ) = G2 · M T F 2(f ) · Φ
N P S(f ) = S2 · M T F 2(f )
Φ · N P S(f ) (4)
Fig. 14. DQE curve measured for our image system by
using the Min-R scintillator at a test condition of 60 kVp and
45.6 mR.

Development of a Digital X-ray Imaging Module· · · – Hyosung Cho et al. -1101-
where G is the sensor gain and Φ is the X-ray quanta
per area at the sensor input. The expression on the right-
hand side, where S is the sensor signal, applies only if the
system response is almost linear and has a zero intercept.
When the MTF and the NPS are obtained from images
linearized to quanta per unit area at the sensor input,
the IEC standard expression for DQE(f ) is
DQE(f ) = M T F 2(f ) · Φ
N P S(f ) (5)
Fig. 14 shows the DQE curve measured for our imag-
ing system at a test condition of 60 kVp and 45.6 mR.
As Fig. 14 shows, the DQE decreases with the spatial
frequency, and the DQE value at zero frequency is about
0.3. The DQE(0) value will be higher for higher-speed
scintillators due to their thicker scintillator thicknesses
and for a FOP coupled with a scintillator due to the
light absorption at the FOP cladding.
IV. CONCLUSION
As a continuation of our digital X-ray imaging sen-
sor R & D [10, 11], we have developed a digital X-ray
imaging module based on a CMOS photosensor array for
portable high-resolution imaging applications and have
evaluated its image performance. The 1024 × 1024-pixel
CMOS array with a size of 48 μm is directly coupled
with a 46.3-μm-thick Gd2O2S : Tb scintillator (Min-R,
Kodak). According to our evaluation analysis, the CNR
at an exposure of 30 mR was 34.3, the spatial frequency
at 10 % MTF was about 9.0, and the NPS and the DQE
at zero frequency were 4.4 × 10−5 and 0.3, respectively.
In terms of system response, resolution, noise, and detec-
tive quantum efficiency, the portable digital X-ray imag-
ing module based on the CMOS array with the Min-R
scintillator gave promising image performances for many
high-resolution imaging applications. The image system
we developed in this study will be useful for potential
portable applications, such as those in emergency medi-
cal vehicles and at remote sites.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This study was supported by the Basic Atomic Energy
Research Institute (BAERI) program of the Ministry of
Science & Technology (MOST) under contract No. M2-
0376-03-0000.
REFERENCES
[1] J. H. Siewerdsen, L. E. Antonuk and J. Yorkston, Proc.
SPIE 2708, 484 (1996).
[2] M. P. Andre, B. Spivey, P. Martin, L. Morsell, E. Atlas
and T. Pellegrino, Proc. SPIE 3336, 204 (1998).
[3] A. Karellas, L. J. Harris, H. Liu, M. A. Davis and C. J.
D’Orsi, Med. Phys. 19, 1015 (1992).
[4] H. Roehrig, L. L. Fajardo, T. Yu and W. S. Schempp,
Proc. SPIE 2163, 320 (1994).
[5] D. Rosen, W. Phillips, M. Stanton, J. Xie, D. O’Mara
and A. Stewart, Proc. SPIE 3032, 52 (1997).
[6] S. T. Smith, D. R. Bednarek, D. C. Wobschall, M. jeong,
H. Kim and S. Rudin, Proc. SPIE 3659, 952 (1999).
[7] Rad-icon Imaging Corp., Santa Clara, CA, USA.
[8] Hyosung Cho, Manhee Jeong, Bongsoo Han, Sin Kim,
Bongsoo Lee and Byongrae Park, J. Korean Phys. Soc.
46, 418 (2005).
[9] A. B. Wolbrast, Physics of Radiology, (Prentice-Hall In-
ternational, New York, 1993), p. 58.
[10] H. S. Cho, S. M. Kang, M. H. Jeong, D. K. Hong, J.
Kadyk and J. G. Kim, J. Korean Phys. Soc. 39, 980
(2001).
[11] H. S. Cho, H. R. Yoon, S. H. Han and H. K. Kim, J.
Korean Phys. Soc. 42, 56 (2003).
