queueId: ingest-1781569954420-193r
sourcePath: raw/sources/DHF (인허가)/01_HAD1717MC, MG/05_설계개발 검증 및 유효성 확인/11_Clinical Evaluation/A-CLSP-01 Clinical Literature Searching Protocol.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/DHF (인허가)/_combined/e0b0a81b97ff/A-CLSP-01 Clinical Literature Searching Protocol__e0b0a81b97ff_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 4dc30a87a84d
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: general
pilotRank: 265

SOURCE_TEXT
Clinical Literature

Search Protocol

Digital Flat Panel X-ray detector

HAD1717MG, HAD1717MC

Report No.: A-CLSP-01 (Rev.0)

Dept. / Title

Name

Date

Signature

Prepared

R&D team

Kim Wan Su

Sep/05/2019

Review

R&D Manager

Lee, Dong jin

Sep/06/2019

Approval

Quality Manager

Hur Namkyu

Sep/06/2019

0.0 Revision history

Revision history

Rev. No.

Rev. date

Revision contents

Remark

0

Sep/05/2019

Establishment

TABLE OF CONTENTS

1.0 Purpose

2.0 Personnel Qualification

3.0 Literature Search Protocol

4.0 Literature search strategy

5.0 Criteria & Basis of Literature Selection

6.0 Use of information

7.0 Update of Protocol

8.0 Conclusion

1.0 Purpose

This protocol is aimed to verify our product's performance and safety in clinical terms by systematically searching out clinical literature of our product and analyzing such searched literature.

2.0 Personnel Qualification

2.1 The person in charge of searching out the clinical literature must be specialized in our products with being well informed of how to use, performance and etc.

2.2 The person in charge of analyzing the searched information and deciding whether to use such information must be knowledgeable of applicable technology of the device.

2.3 Searching and information analysis can be done together with an expert from another organization.

2.4 Those who joined information searching and analysis are as follows, who were selected because they were quality assurance team of our products and thought to be qualified enough to review and approve this Report at users' position.

No

Name

Dept. / Title

Career

Prepared

Kim Wan Su

R&D team

10 years of R&D experience

3.0 Literature Search protocol

Sources of DATA

http://www.sciencedirect.com

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/

http://www.google.com

What to consider choosing the types of data that will be used for clinical evaluation.

Design, similar range of digital radiography performance and Intended Use, clinical contents, flat panel detector, x-ray

Background of Technology Development

Flat panel detector is Used to Digital radiography technique. Digital radiography is required good X-ray image quality and low radiation dose.

4.0 Literature search strategy

We intended to find literature about the performance and safety, performance, clinical data

nature, history. We will establish equivalence to the device under evaluation or the relevance

of benchmark devices to the clinical evaluation. We will analysis with the device under

evaluation or with an equivalent device used in its intended purpose

Searched literature must have equivalent evidence like below

Technical equivalence

Clinical equivalence

Biological equivalence

-Similar design’

-Specification

(function and performance)

-Principle of operation

-Similar Condition of use (IFU)

-Same clinical condition

-Same intended purpose

-Application site on the body

-Target population

-Same side effect

-Same material

-Contact with same body fluid or tissue

-Same duration of contact

4.1 Data selection process

What to consider choosing the types of data that will be used for clinical evaluation.

Design, similar range of digital radiography performance and Intended Use, clinical contents, flat panel detector, x-ray

Background of Technology Development

Flat panel detector is Used to Digital radiography technique. Digital radiography is required good X-ray image quality and low radiation dose.

- Literature for first elimination: Literature excluded using add terms.

Filters activated: Free full text, Publication date from 2000/01/01 to 2019/09/05.

- Literature for second elimination (Select the smallest paper search)

The criteria for evaluating the value of clinical data are based on the case of a trial lacking scientific validity to demonstrate adequate clinical performance and clinical safety in accordance with MEDDEV 2.7/1 Rev4-A6.

However, if the criteria are ambiguous, it is decided through risk identification and risk assessment;

Methodological quality

and scientific validation

evaluation

Contents

Lack of validity of thesis

- Thesis can not be obtained.

- Clinical trial is not SCI (Science Citation Index)

- Before publishing the final thesis

- Different articles for search purpose

Lack of information on elementary aspects

- the methods used

- the identity of products used

- numbers of patients exposed

- what the clinical outcomes were

- all the results the clinical study or investigation planned to investigate

- undesirable side-effects that have been observed

- confidence intervals/ calculation of statistical significance

- if there are intent-to-treat and per protocol populations: definitions and results for the two populations

Numbers too small for statistical significance

Includes publications and reports with inconclusive preliminary data, inconclusive data from feasibility studies, anecdotal experience, hypothesis papers and unsubstantiated opinions.

Improper statistical

methods

- results obtained after multiple subgroup testing, when no corrections have been applied for multiple comparisons.

- calculations and tests based on a certain type of distribution of data (e.g. Gaussian distribution with its calculations of mean values, standard deviations, confidence intervals, t-tests, others tests), while the type of distribution is not tested, the type of distribution is not plausible, or the data have not been transformed. Data such as survival curves, e.g. implant survival, patient survival, symptom-free survival, are generally unlikely to follow a Gaussian distribution.

Lack of adequate controls

- when the endpoints or symptoms assessed are subject to natural fluctuations (e.g. regression to the mean when observing patients with chronic diseases and fluctuating symptoms, when natural improvement occurs, when the natural course of the disease in a patient is not clearly predictable).

- when effectiveness studies are conducted with subjects that are likely to take or are foreseen to receive effective co-interventions (including over-the-counter medication and other therapies).

- when there may be other influencing factors (e.g. outcomes that are affected by variability of the patient population, of the disease, of user skills, of infrastructure available for planning/ intervention/ aftercare, use of prophylactic medication, other factors).

- when there are significant differences between the results of existing publications, pointing to variable and ill controlled influencing factors.

Improper collection of mortality and serious adverse events data

- consent of the subjects for contacting reference persons/ institutions for retrieval of medical information should be obtained during recruitment; when subjects can no longer be found, outcomes should be investigated with the reference persons/ institutions;

- the consequences of missing data on the results should be analysed (e.g. with a sensitivity analysis); alternatively, when patients can no longer be found and their outcomes cannot be identified, they should be considered to meet the SAE endpoint under investigation (e.g. the mortality endpoint of a study).

Misinterpretation by the authors

- reports and publications not correctly addressing lack of statistical significance/ confidence intervals that encompass the null hypothesis.

- effects too small for clinical relevance.

Illegal activities

- Includes clinical investigations not conducted in compliance with local regulations. Clinical investigations are generally expected to be designed, conducted and reported in accordance with EN ISO 14155 or to a comparable standard, and in compliance with local regulations and the Declaration of Helsinki.

4.2 Summary and appraisal of clinical data (Stage 2)

In this example, the weightings would be used to assess the strength of the data sets’ contribution to demonstrating overall performance and safety of the device (Table 1, 2)

Table 1 : Sample Appraisal Criteria for Suitability

Suitability criteria

Description

Grading System

Appropriate device

Were the data generated from the device in question?

D1 Actual device

D2 Equivalent device

D3 Other device

Appropriate device application

Was the device used for the same intended use(e.g., methods of deployment, application, etc.)?

A1 Same use

A2 Minor deviation

A3 Major deviation

Appropriate patient group

Where the data generated from a patient group that is representative of the intended treatment population e.g., age, sex, etc.) and clinical condition (i.e., disease, including state and severity)?

P1 Applicable

P2 Limited

P3 Different population

Acceptable report/data collation

Do the reports or collations of data contain sufficient information to be able to undertake a rational and objective assessment?

R1 High quality

R2 Minor deficiencies

R3 Insufficient information

Table 2: Sample Appraisal Criteria for Data Contribution

Data Contribution criteria

Description

Grading System

Data source type

Was the design of the study appropriate?

T1

Yes

T2

No

Outcome measures

Do the outcome measures reported reflect the intended performance of the device?

O1

Yes

O2

No

Follow up

Is the duration of follow-up long enough to assess whether duration of treatment effects and identify complications?

F1

Yes

F2

No

Statistical significance

Statistical significance Has a statistical analysis of the data been provided and is it appropriate?

S1

Yes

S2

No

Clinical significance

Was the magnitude of the treatment effect observed clinically significant?

C1

Yes

C2

No

5.0 Criteria & Basis of Literature Selection

The searched literature must be complied with MEDDEV 2.7.1 (Rev. 4, June 2016) as shown below in the Flow Chart.

5.1 Stage 0, scope of the clinical evaluation:

- explains the scope and context of the evaluation, including which products/ models/ sizes/ settings are covered by the clinical evaluation report, the technology on which the medical device is based, the conditions of use and the intended purpose of the device;

- documents any claims made about the device’s clinical performance or clinical safety.

5.2 Stage 1, identification of pertinent data:

- explains the literature search strategy;

- presents the nature and extent of the clinical data and relevant pre-clinical data that have been identified.

5.3 Stage 2, appraisal of pertinent data:

- explains the criteria used by the evaluators for appraising data sets;

- summarises the pertinent data sets (methods, results, conclusions of the authors);

- evaluates their methodological quality, scientific validity, the relevance for the evaluation, the weighting attributed to the evidence, and any limitations;

- presents justifications for rejecting certain data or documents.

5.4 Stage 3, analysis of the clinical data:

- explains if and how the referenced information, such as confirmation of compliance with clinical data requirement from applicable harmonised standards and the clinical data, constitute sufficient clinical evidence for demonstration of the clinical performance and clinical safety of the device under evaluation;

- explains whether there are adequate data for all aspects of the intended purpose and for all products/ models/ sizes/ settings covered by the clinical evaluation.

- describes the benefits and risks of the device (their nature, probability, extent, duration and frequency);

- explains the acceptability of the benefit/risk profile according to current knowledge/ the state of the art in the medical fields concerned, with reference to applicable standards and guidance documents, available medical alternatives, and the analysis and conclusions of the evaluators on fulfilment of all Essential Requirements pertaining to clinical properties of the device (MDD ER1, ER3, ER6);

- analyses if there is consistency between the clinical data, the information materials supplied by the manufacturer, the risk management documentation for the device under evaluation;

- whether there is consistency between these documents and the current knowledge/ the state of the art;

- identifies any gaps and discrepancies;

- identifies residual risks and uncertainties or unanswered questions (such as rare complications, uncertainties regarding medium- and long term performance, safety under wide-spread use) that should be further evaluated during PMS, including in PMCF studies.

6.0 Use of information

We will gather or survey customer satisfaction report, complain report, recall data of other brand device data, literature or etc. If there is hazard, check and apply design as internal quality control system.

We will perform that based on procedure, H&abyz Co., Ltd. will perform post market surveillance activities which will be considered at every documents reviews by quality manager for Post Market Clinical Follow-up(MEDDEV 2.12-2). Also related significant update to clinical evaluation which based on post market experience or scientific publication, H&abyz Co., Ltd. will inform to NB at every case.

7.0 Update of Protocol

This protocol should be updated at least every 3 years to reflect recent publications and technical trends. The revision history should be maintained as document control activity. Contents of Protocol updates will be included in the clinical evaluation report.

 8.0 Conclusion

 The search protocol for Device that has been developed provides guidance for carry out effective literature searches. The literature search results are attached to the Clinical literature searching report and clinical evaluation report.

[Attachment] : Clinical Literature Searching Report(A-CLSR-01 (Rev.0))

[Attachment] : Clinical Evaluation Report(A-CER-01 (Rev.0))
