queueId: ingest-1781569954417-15g3
sourcePath: raw/sources/DHF (인허가)/01_HAD1717MC, MG/05_설계개발 검증 및 유효성 확인/11_Clinical Evaluation/LITERATURE/3. Optimizing image quality and dose for digital radiography.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/DHF (인허가)/_combined/0b29b9854be4/3. Optimizing image quality and dose for digital radiography__0b29b9854be4_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 305310d1e67c
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 266

SOURCE_TEXT
Page 1 of 11
Optimizing image quality and dose for digital radiography of
paediatric extremities
Poster No.: C-2037
Congress: ECR 2012
Type: Scientific Exhibit
Authors: R. Hess1, D. Manke2, U. Neitzel2; 1 Hamburg/DE, 2Hamburg/DE
Keywords: Trauma, Physics, Experimental investigations, Digital radiography,
Radiation physics, Pediatric, Extremities
DOI: 10.1594/ecr2012/C-2037
Any information contained in this pdf file is automatically generated from digital material
submitted to EPOS by third parties in the form of scientific presentations. References
to any names, marks, products, or services of third parties or hypertext links to third-
party sites or information are provided solely as a convenience to you and do not in
any way constitute or imply ECR's endorsement, sponsorship or recommendation of the
third party, information, product or service. ECR is not responsible for the content of
these pages and does not make any representations regarding the content or accuracy
of material in this file.
As per copyright regulations, any unauthorised use of the material or parts thereof as
well as commercial reproduction or multiple distribution by any traditional or electronically
based reproduction/publication method ist strictly prohibited.
You agree to defend, indemnify, and hold ECR harmless from and against any and all
claims, damages, costs, and expenses, including attorneys' fees, arising from or related
to your use of these pages.
Please note: Links to movies, ppt slideshows and any other multimedia files are not
available in the pdf version of presentations.
www.myESR.org

Page 2 of 11
Purpose
The optimization of x-ray imaging parameters according to the ALARA (as low as
reasonably achievable) principle remains a continuous challenge in radiology, in
particular for paediatric examinations. Digital imaging provides new possibilities because
of the wide dynamic range of digital detectors and the digital image processing
possibilities [1,2].
The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of x-ray tube voltage and
filtration on image quality and dose for digital radiography of paediatric distal extremities
and to determine conditions that give the best balance of image quality and patient dose.
The results can then be used to minimize patient dose at a given, fixed image quality or,
alternatively, to maximize the image quality without increasing the patient dose.
Methods and Materials
In a phantom study simulating the absorption properties of distal paediatric extremities
the image quality and the related absorbed dose were determined as function of tube
voltage, both with and without additional filtration. Images were acquired at various tube
voltages in the range from 40 kV to 66 kV.
The set-up (Fig. 1 on page 3) consisted of:
• a standard medical x-ray tube with an optional 1 mm Al/0.1 mm Cu pre-filter
• a phantom consisting of 1 cm PMMA and an additional 1 mm Al detail
contrast
• a digital flat-panel x-ray detector (CsI /a-Si based)
Similarly to previous studies [3,4,5] the measured contrast-to noise ratio (CNR) was used
as the indicator for image quality whereas the mean absorbed dose (MAD) - determined
by a combination of measurement and simulation - was used as indicator for the dose
to the phantom.
Dose determination
The mean absorbed dose (MAD) in the phantom for a given tube loading (mAs) was
determined in a three-step procedure:

Page 3 of 11
• Determination of the radiation incident on the phantom by a combination of
tube output measurement and spectral simulation.
• Using a Monte-Carlo based simulation technique to derive the energy
absorbed in the phantom.
• Evaluation of the mean absorbed dose (MAD) in the phantom at 1 m focal
spot distance.
CNR determination
The contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) in the image taken at a given tube voltage and filter
setting was measured according to the following procedure:
• Two regions of interests (ROIs) were defined in the (original, not post-
processed) images, one in the area of the projected Al contrast object and
one beside it, see Fig. 2 on page 4.
• In the ROIs the mean pixel values (MV) and the standard deviations (SD)
from the mean values where determined, see Fig. 1 on page 3.
• The contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) was evaluated from these values
according to the equation given in Fig. 3 on page 5.
Images for this section:

Page 4 of 11
Fig. 1: Sketch of the set-up of the phantom study.

Page 5 of 11
Fig. 2: Regions of interest (ROI) in the phantom image to measure the contrast-to-noise
ratio.
Fig. 3: Equation for the contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), derived from the mean values (MV)
and standard deviations (SD) of the pixels in the two regions of interests (ROI).

Page 6 of 11
Results
Fig. 4 on page 6 shows the tube voltage dependence of the measured contrast-
to-noise ratio (CNR) for a fixed mean absorbed dose (MAD) of 25 μGy, both without
added filtration and with an added pre-filter of 0.1 mm Cu / 1 mm Al. The CNR increases
continuously for decreasing tube voltage and reaches its maximum at 40 kV, the lowest
attainable tube voltage. For all tube voltages (and fixed MAD) the CNR is higher without
the added filter, the difference being 11% at 66 kV and 9% at 40 kV.
Fig. 5 on page 7 shows the tube voltage dependence of the mean absorbed dose
(MAD) for a fixed contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR=26), with and without added pre-filter. Tthe
mean absorbed dose (MAD) is lowest at 40 kV, the lowest investigated tube voltage, and
using no added filter.
Images for this section:

Page 7 of 11
Fig. 4: Contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) as function of tube voltage for a fixed mean
absorbed dose (MAD) in the phantom of 25 μGy. Full line: without pre-filter; dashed line:
with 0.1 mm Cu / 1 mm Al pre-filter.
Fig. 5: Mean absorbed dose (MAD) as function of tube voltage for a fixed contrast-to-
noise ratio of CNR=26. Full line: without pre-filter; dashed line: with 0.1 mm Cu / 1 mm
Al pre-filter.

Page 8 of 11
Conclusion
While current practice and guidelines [6] prescribe tube voltages in the range of 50 to 60
kV for examinations of the distal extremities of children, this study suggests that for digital
radiography a better balance of image quality and patient dose may be possible at lower
tube voltages. Table 1 on page 8 summarizes the reduction in dose or, alternatively,
the gain in contrast-to-noise ratio that can be reached at 40 kV compared to the standard
range of tube voltages. Fig. 6 on page 8 gives examples of pediatric hand ap images
at 40 and 50 kV with equivalent mean absorbed dose.
It is important to note that the current guidelines are still based on the properties of
conventional screen-film imaging, which is characterized by the given sensitivity and
contrast properties of a screen-film image receptor. Digital radiography systems offer
additional degrees of freedom because of the wide dynamic range of the detector and the
possibilty to adapt image contrast by appropriate image processing. These possibilities
have not been fully exploited to date for further optimization of the image quality#dose
relation according to the ALARA principle.
Further clinical validation of the phantom study outcome are needed before the changes
can be adopted for general clinical use. First results of a clinical evaluation will be reported
at this conference (session SS 1712).
Images for this section:
Table 1: Improvements of CNR or reduction of mean absorbed dose that can be reached
by changing the tube voltage from 50 kV or 60 kV to 40 kV. All situations without added
pre-filter.

Page 9 of 11
Fig. 6: Examples of paediatric hand ap images taken at 50 kV left and 40 kV (right) with
equivalent mean absorbed dose.

Page 10 of 11
References
[1] Uffmann M, Schaefer-Prokop C. Digital radiography: the balance between image
quality and required radiation dose. Eur J Radiol 2009;72:202-208
[2] Willis CE. Optimizing digital radiography of children. Eur J Radiol 2009;72:266-273
[3] Tapiovaara MJ, Sandborg M, Dance DR. A search for improved technique factors in
paediatric fluoroscopy. Phys Med Biol 1999;44:537-559
[4] Doyle P, Martin CJ, Gentle D. Application of contrast-to-noise ratio in optimizing
beam quality for digital chst radiography: comparison of experimental measurements and
theoretical simulations. Phys Med Biol 2006;51:2953-2970
[5] Gislason AJ, Davies AG, Cowen AR. Dose optimization in pediatric cardiac x-ray
imaging. Med Phys 2010;37:5258-5269
[6] Leitlinie der Bundesärztekammer zur Qualitätssicherung in der Röntgendiagnostik
- Qualitätskriterien röntgendiagnostischer Untersuchungen. Dtsch Arztebl
2008;105(10):A-536
Personal Information
Prof. Dr. Robert Hess
Department Informations- und Elektrotechnik
Fakultät Technik und Informatik
Hochschule für Angewandte Wissenschaften Hamburg
Berliner Tor 7
20099 Hamburg
Dr. Dirk Manke
Diagnostic X-ray Advanced Development

Page 11 of 11
Philips Healthcare
22331 Hamburg
Dr. Ulrich Neitzel
Diagnostic X-ray Clinical Science
Philips Healthcare
22331 Hamburg
