queueId: ingest-1781569954394-nv1
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260213 태국 MD Healthcard Co., Ltd/251209 보완서류/2.2 [Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector] Technical Document/A-CSDT-23G attachment (Rev.5)/9. Validation and verification/9.6 clinical/9.6.3 literatures/Literature #15.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/79ed425ecdad/Literature #15__79ed425ecdad_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 273612c5f24e
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: overseas
pilotRank: 403

SOURCE_TEXT
23. 10. 10. 오전 10:10 Ovid: Digital Radiography with a Large-Area, Amorphous-Silicon, Flat-Panel X-Ray Detector System.
1/11
Ovid ≪ 이전 페이지 내 계정 Ask Ovid® Ovid® 이용 지원 자료 센터 도움말 피드백 로그오프 ®
[Preliminary Report]
Investigative Radiology
발행 호: Volume 35(4), April 2000, pp 260-266
저작권: © 2000 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Inc.
출판 유형: [Preliminary Report]
ISSN: 0020-9996
수납 정보: 00004424-200004000-00007
키워드: Digital radiography, flat-panel detector, amorphous silicon, detective quantum efficiency.
Digital Radiography with a Large-Area, Amorphous-Silicon, Flat-Panel X-Ray Detector System
SPAHN, MARTIN PhD*; STROTZER, MICHAEL MD†; VÖLK, MARKUS MD†; BÖHM, STEFAN Dipl. Electr. Eng.*; GEIGER, BERNHARD Dipl.
Opt. Eng.*; HAHM, GERHARD Dipl. Electr. Eng.*; FEUERBACH, STEFAN MD†
저자 정보
From *Siemens AG, Medical Engineering, Angio, Fluoro, and Rad Systems Development, Forchheim, Germany, and the †Department of Diagnostic
Radiology, University Hospital Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany.
Received October 22, 1999, and accepted for publication, after revision, December 29, 1999.
Reprint requests: Dr. M. Spahn, Siemens AG, Medical Engineering, Angio, Fluoro, and Rad Systems Development, Siemensstrasse 1, D-91301 Forchheim,
Germany; e-mail: martin.spahn@med.siemens.de
This work was partly supported by European Community funds under the ESPRIT program No. 21807 (“MEDID”).
Abstract
Spahn M, Strotzer M, Völk M, et al. Digital radiography with a large-area, amorphous-silicon, flat-panel x-ray detector system. Invest Radiol
2000;35:260–266.
RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES. To investigate the image quality of a digital radiography system with an amorphous-silicon, large-area, digital
flat-panel detector.
METHODS. A flat-panel detector based on a matrix of amorphous silicon was integrated into a projection radiography system. The scintillator
consisted of a layer of structured cesium iodide. The active matrix size of 30002 pixels together with a pixel size of 143 μm provided a large
image area of 43 × 43 cm2. Basic image quality parameters such as detective quantum efficiency (DQE) and modulation transfer function (MTF)
were measured and compared with those obtained with conventional systems.
RESULTS. The measurement of DQE yielded a high value of 70% at zero spatial frequency. At a system dose equivalent to 400 speed, the DQE of
the digital system was a factor of two larger than the DQE of a storage phosphor or screen-film system within the entire spatial frequency
range between zero and the Nyquist limit of 3.5 line pairs per millimeter. The flat-panel detector furthermore has an MTF that is superior to
that in regular screen-film systems and also provides a substantially larger dynamic range.
CONCLUSIONS. This new technology demonstrates its potential to provide equal or superior image quality to conventional screen-film systems
and to reduce patient exposure to radiation dose. The advantages of digital radiography systems, based on a flat-panel detector as an instant
image display, facilitation of work flow in the radiology department, and digital networking and archiving, are well in sight.
More than 100 years after the discovery of x-rays, the oldest of all medical imaging modalities—conventional projection radiography—has mainly
remained an analog technique dominated by screen-film systems. About 20 years ago, the first step into the digital world of radiography was made via
computed radiography by means of storage phosphor systems, which are distinguished by a high dynamic range and linearity. Nevertheless, the
spread of this technology into the clinical routine has remained limited and work flow in the radiology department has hardly changed, for this
cassette-based technology requires handling similar to that of film.



23. 10. 10. 오전 10:10 Ovid: Digital Radiography with a Large-Area, Amorphous-Silicon, Flat-Panel X-Ray Detector System.
2/11
The increasing number of picture archive and communication system installations in hospitals will be beneficial in terms of cost and efficiency only if
work flow is improved and all imaging modalities are fully integrated into the complete process, from image acquisition to diagnosis and archiving. So
far, the detection system in projection radiography has been the missing link to fully achieve this goal. Driven by the rapidly expanding market of
active-matrix liquid-crystal displays, a new technology based on amorphous silicon has become available to design large-area, flat-panel detectors
that promise to fill this gap. 1–4
In this article, we report on the measurements of some basic image quality parameters and present some of the first clinical images of a new 43 × 43
cm2 flat-panel detector developed by Trixell (Moirans, France). The results were achieved by integrating a prototype detector into a digital wall stand
and a Bucky table system.
Materials And Methods
The basic principle of the flat-panel x-ray detector is depicted in Figure 1. It consists of a matrix of photodiodes, made from amorphous silicon, which
is covered with a cesium iodide (CsI) scintillator. X-rays are absorbed in the CsI layer and are converted into visible photons, which in turn generate
electric charges in the photodiodes. Each pixel of the matrix is connected to a row line for driving voltages and to a column line for readout via an
active switching element, which may be either a thin-film diode or a thin-film transistor. The electric charges are read out in parallel for one row. The
signals are then multiplexed and analog-to-digitally converted inside the detector housing. The data are transmitted via a fiber-optic link to the
acquisition system, where digital processing of the data is performed.
Figure 1. Schematic view of a flat-panel detector based on amorphous-silicon technology. A close-up view of a pixel is shown, consisting of a
photodiode and a small switching element. ADC: analog-to-digital converter.
The hydrogenated amorphous-silicon material combines several advantages, important for this kind of application: (1) it can be deposited on very
large areas, (2) it exhibits semiconductor-like properties (photoconductivity in the visible spectral range, field effect), (3) it requires only relatively low
deposition temperatures of 200° to 250° C, and (4) it has a proved stability against x-ray radiation.
The detector used in this investigation had a pixel size of 143 μm and a matrix of 30002 pixels, 5 providing an active area of 43 × 43 cm2. This area is
sufficiently large to allow for all examinations that require the largest field of view, such as the chest, pelvis, or abdomen, while the square size
eliminates the necessity to rotate the detector. The large size was made possible by tiling four individual amorphous-silicon plates together on a
common glass substrate. This approach was chosen to optimize the yield of the plate manufacturing process.
The thallium-doped CsI (CsI:Tl) scintillation layer with a thickness of about 500 μm exhibits a needle-like, crystalline structure providing a very good
vertical optical coupling that is the basis for high spatial resolution. The spectral light emission of the CsI:Tl with a maximum in the green is ideally
matched to the quantum efficiency of the amorphous-silicon photodiodes, resulting in a very high effective conversion factor of 800 to 1000 electrons
per incident x-ray photon at a mean energy of 53 keV.
Each pixel consists of a photodiode and a switching diode in back-to-back configuration. Whereas the photodiodes are optimized for large signals by
their maximum size and high sensitivity, the small switching diodes—with a good forward current of 40 mA/cm2 at 1.5 V—allow for a high signal
readout efficiency, which contributes to the good overall effective conversion factor. The back-to-back configuration of the two diodes requires an
optical reset, supplied by backside illumination.
Line driving and column readout are provided by specifically designed CMOS (complementary metal oxide semiconductor) integrated circuits with 120
channels per chip. The chips are connected to the plates via flexible circuits and on the other side to the electronics board, which hosts the 14-bit
analog-to-digital converters. The serialized data connection is supplied by a 160-Mbit/s fiber-optic link (taxi connection), which allows readout of the
9 million pixels into the acquisition system within 1.2 seconds.

23. 10. 10. 오전 10:10 Ovid: Digital Radiography with a Large-Area, Amorphous-Silicon, Flat-Panel X-Ray Detector System.
3/11
The detector was integrated into existing x-ray systems consisting of a wall stand unit (THORAX PRO, Siemens; Erlangen, Germany) and a Bucky table
(MULTIX PRO P, Siemens) allowing image acquisitions in the full range of general radiography applications. The digital back end comprised a personal
computer for data acquisition, data processing, temporal data storage, and patient data interface and a MagicView workstation (Siemens) for image
review and as a gate for image printout. The data preprocessing steps consisted of flat fielding (offset and gain corrections) and interpolation of
defective pixel elements. Examination-specific image processing was provided to optimize diagnostic quality. A laser camera (AGFA LR 5500, Mortsel,
Belgium) was connected to the workstation for immediate printout.
The spatial frequency–dependent detective quantum efficiency (DQE) is now widely accepted as the single most important physical parameter to
characterize the image quality of a medical x-ray system. The self-normalizing measurement method used to determine this parameter has been
described in detail in Reference 6, where the reader is also guided through a sample calculation. DQE(f)—with f denoting spatial frequency—was
measured at a tube voltage of 90 kV, a prefiltration with 0.6-mm copper, and a detector entrance dose of 2.5 μGy (equivalent to a sensitivity class of
400 speed). The dose was measured with a DIADOS (PTW, Freiburg, Germany). Special care was taken to exclude backscattered x-ray radiation from the
measurement. The beam quality was chosen to represent an average condition for a large range of applications, ie, skeletal as well as chest
radiography.
The spatial resolution capability of a detection system is measured in terms of the modulation transfer function (MTF). Because the MTF
measurement is part of the DQE measurement, 6 the same dataset used for the DQE was used for the MTF. A slightly tilted test grid pattern, providing
spatial frequencies from 0.05 to 5.0 line pairs (lp)/mm, was used to determine the detector (presampling) MTF.
The dynamic range was measured by analyzing a series of homogeneously irradiated images and plotting the mean signal value against dose. The
mean signal was calculated in a central region of interest of the active detector area. Consequently, the central region of interest of the active
detector area was also used to perform the dose measurements. The total noise, consisting of quantum and electronic noise, was extracted from the
same series of images by calculating the standard deviation from the same region of interest used to determine the mean signal value. The electronic
noise level of the detector was derived by calculating the standard deviation from a dark image, ie, an image that did not receive any dose.
Results
Figure 2 shows DQE measurement results of a prototype detector. The DQE adopts values of 70% at near-zero spatial frequency for the chosen beam
quality (90-kV tube voltage, 0.6-mm copper prefiltration, and 2.5-μGy system dose) and gradually falls with higher spatial frequency to the Nyquist
limit of 3.5 lp/mm. For comparison, the DQE values for a Lanex regular screen-film combination 7 and for two storage phosphor systems, V ST
(standard with 200-μm resolution) and V HR (high resolution with 100-μm resolution), 8 are shown as well.
Figure 2. The frequency-dependent detective quantum efficiency [DQF(f)], measured at 90 kV with a filtration of 0.6-mm copper at a detector
entrance dose of 2.5 μGy (equivalent to 400 speed). For comparison, DQE curves for screen-film 7 and storage phosphor (CR V ST, CR V HR) 8
systems are shown as well. FD: flat-panel detector; ST: standard; HR: high resolution.

23. 10. 10. 오전 10:10 Ovid: Digital Radiography with a Large-Area, Amorphous-Silicon, Flat-Panel X-Ray Detector System.
4/11
Figure 3 shows measurement results of the MTF 6 for the new prototype detector. Also shown is an example for the MTF of the complete system, which
—as for all digital systems—can be enhanced to any degree by applying appropriate filters, for instance, edge-enhancement filters. For comparison,
the MTFs of several screen-film systems are shown as well. 7 Although the detector MTF is equivalent to the MTF of medium screen-film systems up to
about 2 lp/mm and is higher than the MTF of regular screen-film systems over the whole frequency range up to the Nyquist limit, the system MTF may
be substantially higher than the MTFs of conventional systems.
Figure 3. The detector or presampling modulation transfer function (MTF) was measured for 90 kV, using 0.6-mm copper filtration. For comparison,
the MTFs for screen-film systems (Lanex regular and Lanex medium) are shown as well. 7 With digital processing (here, a 3 × 3 edge-enhancement
filter was used by adding 60% of the high-pass signal), the system MTF can be largely improved and may substantially surpass the MTFs of screen-
film systems. FD: flat panel; lp, line pairs.
The transfer characteristic of the detector as a function of dose is shown in Figure 4. The detector response is highly linear up to about 60 μGy, above
which it turns into saturation. The point where the quantum noise meets the very low electronic noise floor of about 1 digital unit (equivalent to
nearly 4000 electrons) is indicated in the same plot. For comparison, the response function of a screen-film system 7 is shown as well.
Figure 4. Signal response of the flat-panel detector (FD) as a function of dose. The dynamic range exceeds that of conventional screen-film
systems by several orders of magnitude.

23. 10. 10. 오전 10:10 Ovid: Digital Radiography with a Large-Area, Amorphous-Silicon, Flat-Panel X-Ray Detector System.
5/11
Some of the first images taken in a clinical environment are depicted in Figures 5 through 8. All images were acquired at exposure conditions
equivalent to 400 speed. The diagnostic image quality provided by the digital system was highly appreciated by the examining radiologists and was
rated equal or superior to conventional images, as expected from the DQE measurement data.
Figure 5. Chest p. a. taken at 129 kV, 1 mAs. Search for metastases from malignant melanoma.

23. 10. 10. 오전 10:10 Ovid: Digital Radiography with a Large-Area, Amorphous-Silicon, Flat-Panel X-Ray Detector System.
6/11
Figure 6. Fracture of the humerus. Generator settings were 60 kV, 4 mAs.

23. 10. 10. 오전 10:10 Ovid: Digital Radiography with a Large-Area, Amorphous-Silicon, Flat-Panel X-Ray Detector System.
7/11
Figure 7. Image of pelvis, taken at 66 kV, 21.4 mAs; search for metastases.

23. 10. 10. 오전 10:10 Ovid: Digital Radiography with a Large-Area, Amorphous-Silicon, Flat-Panel X-Ray Detector System.
8/11
Figure 8. Wrist with fracture of the radius, taken at 45 kV, 7.1 mAs.
Discussion
The analysis of the DQE measurements demonstrates a large improvement of the new detector system over the screen-film combination and storage
phosphor systems with respect to this physical parameter. The high DQE, which is about a factor of two larger than the DQE of screen-film and storage
phosphor systems over the whole frequency range, is mainly attributed to (1) the high absorption efficiency of the CsI, (2) the large effective quantum
gain of the scintillator, (3) the small pixel size of 143 μm, and (4) the very low electronic noise of the signal readout chain. This fact is the basis for the
potential of this new technology to allow for substantial dose reductions with respect to the established technologies of today. 9–12
While the detector (presampling) MTF provides high values in the frequency range below 2 lp/mm, which is particularly relevant for most radiological
objects, the CsI scintillation layer acts as a “low-pass” filter and suppresses virtually all frequencies above the Nyquist limit of f = 3.5 lp/mm, which is
beneficial for the reduction of noise aliasing that would otherwise occur. 13 It is very interesting to note that the detector MTF is determined by the
properties of the CsI, the optical coupling, and the pixel size and therefore does not depend on dose within the linear range of the detector. Hence,
other than for screen-film systems, the detector provides the same resolution, independent of the chosen equivalent speed.

23. 10. 10. 오전 10:10 Ovid: Digital Radiography with a Large-Area, Amorphous-Silicon, Flat-Panel X-Ray Detector System.
9/11
The detector response function (Fig. 4) demonstrates a large dynamic range that is substantially wider than that available for a given screen-film
system. A radiography system based on this new technology will therefore be considerably more immune to over- or underexposure in comparison
with analog systems. This feature should consequently help to reduce the number of repeats, which can most often be attributed to inappropriate
exposure settings.
The flat-panel detector technology is expected to ease the work flow in the radiology department. Figure 9 depicts the typical work-flow situations in
an examination room for the screen-film–based (and equally, for a storage phosphor–based) technology and a fully integrated digital system based
on a flat-panel detector. The elimination of the film processing stage greatly simplifies operational logistics in the department. This reduces not only

space and manpower but also the time spent by patients in the examination room, since an initial assessment of the result can take place
immediately. The fast image acquisition and display may even change the present routines completely, since direct diagnosis at the monitor will be
possible. This new technology is likely to make the biggest impact in high-throughput situations, such as chest imaging. In the case of the
conventional system, only at step 8 will it be obvious if a retake is necessary. Owing to the reduced number of steps, instant image control capability
on the monitor, and reduced repeat rate, the digital system holds the potential to cut exam times substantially.
Figure 9. Work flow in the radiology department for an analog screen-film system (a) and for an integrated digital system based on flat-panel (FD)
technology (b). The arrows and numbers indicate the steps and their order required to be taken by the patient and/or technician. Step 8 for the
analog system indicates the first point where a retake may be judged to be necessary.
Conclusions
The imaging quality performance of a digital imaging system for general projection radiography based on large-area flat-panel detectors was
evaluated. Basic physical parameters such as the DQE, MTF, and dynamic range proved to be superior to those of standard screen-film systems. Flat-
panel detector technology based on CsI and amorphous-silicon photodiodes opens the ground for a reduction in patient dose due to better DQE and
fewer repeats. Integrated digital systems based on flat-panel detector technology are expected to ease the work flow in the radiology department.
Because the images are available in digital form, they may be distributed in numerous ways, for example, to review consoles in other departments or
central archiving systems. They also provide the basis for computer-aided diagnosis, which may support the radiologist in the future.
Acknowledgments
The authors want to thank T. Weller and B. Stowasser for technical and analytical support and K. Stierstorfer for valuable discussions on DQE and MTF
measurements, as well as all staff who contributed in making this work possible. The authors also want to acknowledge the partial support by the
European community funds.
References
1. Antonuk LE. Thin-film, flat-panel imagers—A coming revolution in megavoltage and diagnostic x-ray imaging? Phys Med 1993; 9:63–68.
Search UpToDate [Context Link]
2. Lee DL, Cheung LK, Jeromine LS, Palecki EF, Rodricks B. Radiographic imaging characteristics of a direct conversion detector using selenium and thin
film transistor array. SPIE 1997; 3032:88–95.
[Context Link]
3. Kameshima T, Kaifu N, Takami E, Morishita M, Yamazaki T. Novel large area MIS-type x-ray image sensor for digital radiography. SPIE 1998; 3336:453–
462.
[Context Link]

23. 10. 10. 오전 10:10 Ovid: Digital Radiography with a Large-Area, Amorphous-Silicon, Flat-Panel X-Ray Detector System.
10/11
4. Chabbal J, Chaussat C, Ducourant T, et al. Amorphous silicon x-ray sensor. SPIE 1996; 2708:499–510.
[Context Link]
5. Chaussat C, Chabbal J, Ducourant T, Spinnler V, Vieux G, Neyret R. New CsI/a-Si ‘17×17' x-ray: Flat panel detector provides superior detectivity and
immediate direct digital output for general radiography systems. SPIE 1998; 3336:45–56.
[Context Link]
6. Stierstorfer K, Spahn M. Self-normalizing method to measure the detective quantum efficiency (f) of a wide range of x-ray detectors. Med Phys 1999;
26:1312–1319.
[Context Link]
7. Van Metter R, Dickerson R. Objective performance characteristics of a new asymmetric screen-film system. Med Phys 1994; 21:1483–1490.
Search UpToDate Bibliographic Links [Context Link]
8. Dobbins JT III, Ergun DL, Rutz L, Hinshaw DA, Blume H, Clark DC. DQE(f) of four generations of computed radiography acquisition devices. Med Phys
1995; 22:1581–1593.
Search UpToDate Bibliographic Links [Context Link]
9. Strotzer M, Gmeinwieser J, Völk M, et al. Clinical application of a flat-panel x-ray detector based on amorphous silicon technology. AJR 1998; 171:23–
27.
Search UpToDate Bibliographic Links [Context Link]
10. Strotzer M, Gmeinwieser J, Spahn M, et al. Amorphous silicon, flat-panel, x-ray detector versus screen-film radiography: Effect of dose reduction on
the detectability of cortical bone defects and fractures. Invest Radiol 1998; 33:33–38.
Ovid Full Text Search UpToDate Bibliographic Links [Context Link]
11. Völk M, Strotzer M, Gmeinwieser J, et al. Flat-panel x-ray detector using amorphous silicon technology: Reduced radiation dose for the detection of
foreign bodies. Invest Radiol 1997; 32:373–377.
Ovid Full Text Search UpToDate Bibliographic Links [Context Link]
12. Strotzer M, Gmeinwieser J, Völk M, Fründ R, Seitz J, Feuerbach S. Detection of simulated chest lesions with normal and reduced radiation dose:
Comparison of conventional screen-film radiography and a flat-panel x-ray detector based on amorphous silicon. Invest Radiol 1998; 33:98–103.
Ovid Full Text Search UpToDate Bibliographic Links [Context Link]
13. Moy JP. Image quality of scintillator based x-ray electronic imagers. SPIE 1998; 3336:187–194.
[Context Link]
KEY WORDS. Digital radiography; flat-panel detector; amorphous silicon; detective quantum efficiency.
이미지 갤러리
모두 선택  PowerPoint로 선택 항목 내보내기 
Figure 1 Figure 2 Figure 3

23. 10. 10. 오전 10:10 Ovid: Digital Radiography with a Large-Area, Amorphous-Silicon, Flat-Panel X-Ray Detector System.
11/11
맨 위로 이동
Figure 4 Figure 5 Figure 6
Figure 7 Figure 8 Figure 9

회사 정보 연락처 개인 정보 보호 정책 사용 약관
© 2023 Ovid Technologies, Inc. 모든 판권은 보호되고 있습니다. | OvidUI_05.08.00.036
