queueId: ingest-1781569954380-alo
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260213 태국 MD Healthcard Co., Ltd/251209 보완서류/2.2 [Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector] Technical Document/A-CSDT-23G attachment (Rev.5)/9. Validation and verification/9.6 clinical/9.6.3 literatures/Literature #11.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/149e26dd90b2/Literature #11__149e26dd90b2_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 0f512727e0fc
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 404

SOURCE_TEXT
Clinical Study
Conventional versus digital radiographs for intraoperative cervical
spine-level localization: a prospective time and cost analysis
Michael P. Steinmetz, MDa, *, Thomas E. Mroz, MDa , Ajit Krishnaney, MD a ,
Michael Modic, MD b
aCenter for Spine Health, Neurological Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Ave., S-80, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA
bNeurological Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Ave., S-80, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA
Received 29 September 2008; revised 27 June 2009; accepted 20 July 2009
Abstract BACKGROUND: In today’s health-care environment, operational efficiency is intrinsic to balanc-
ing the need for increased productivity driven by rising costs and potentially decreasing reimburse-
ment. Other operational factors kept constant, decreasing the time for a procedure can be viewed as
one marker for increased efficiency.
PURPOSE: To prospectively evaluate the time and operating room efficiency differences between
the two methods for intraoperative level localization.
STYDY DESIGN: Prospective nonrandomized study.
PATIENT SAMPLE: Prospective consecutive patients undergoing a single-level anterior cervical
discectomy and fusion (ACDF) with plate and allograft.
OUTCOMES MEASURES: Time for performance and interpretation of intraoperative localiza-
tion radiograph.
METHODS: This is a prospective nonrandomized study of patients treated consecutively
with a single-level ACDF with allograft and plating. All the patients underwent a conventional
approach to the cervical spine. After exposure, a spinal needle was placed in the exposed intervertebral
disc and a radiography was performed. Either a conventional or a digital radiography was used in each
case.
RESULTS: Eighteen patients were enrolled in this study. Ten patients underwent localization with
conventional radiography, whereas eight patients underwent localization with digital imaging. The
mean time for conventional radiography was 823 seconds (standard deviation [SD], 159), and for
digital, it was 100 seconds (SD, 34; p!.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Current technology provides options for level localization. Digital imaging pro-
vides equally accurate information as conventional radiography in a significantly reduced amount of
time. Image quality, ease or archival, and manipulation provided by digital radiography are superior
to those by provided fluoroscopy. Keeping operational factors constant, decreasing the time for
a procedure, and increasing the efficiency of the environment may be viewed as a surrogate for im-
proving the cost basis for a procedure. Ó 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Keywords: ACDF; Cervical; Fusion; Localization radiograph; Socioeconomics; Spine
Introduction
In today’s health-care environment, operational effi-
ciency is intrinsic to balancing the need for increased
productivity driven by rising costs and potentially decreas-
ing reimbursement. Other operational factors kept constant,
decreasing the time for a procedure can be viewed as one
marker for increased efficiency. With improved efficiency,
the hospital is better able to serve more people and reinvest
in medical infrastructure.
A localization X-ray in spine surgery has become con-
ventional of care. Surgery to remove pathology, such as
a herniated disc, cannot be safely performed unless the sur-
geon confirms that he/she is at the correct level. Operating
FDA device/drug status: not applicable.
Author disclosures: MPS (speaking/teaching arrangements, Stryker
Spine); TEM (stock ownership, PearlDiver, Inc.).
* Corresponding author. Center for Spine Health, Cleveland Clinic,
9500 Euclid Ave., S-80, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. Tel.: (216) 445-
4633; fax: (216) 636-5457.
E-mail address: steinmm@ccf.org (M.P. Steinmetz)
1529-9430/09/$ – see front matter Ó 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.spinee.2009.07.004
The Spine Journal 9 (2009) 967–971

at the wrong level does not relieve the patient’s symptoms,
and it is one of the most common reasons for a patient to
pursue a claim of malpractice [1].
The purpose of imaging is to 1) provide reliable ana-
tomic or functional information and 2) provide information
that will also affect therapeutic decision making. In the case
of intraoperative information, a third factor becomes impor-
tant. That is, to decrease the cycle time of the acquisition of
this information that affects the decision-making process.
While maintaining or increasing accuracy, decreasing the
time will improve patient safety (less time under anesthesia
[2]) and decrease potential surgeon frustration.
Several options are available to localize a spinal level in
the operating room (OR). One of the most common is a con-
ventional lateral spine radiograph. This almost always per-
mits localization but requires time for the technician to
shoot the X-ray, develop the film, and bring it back to the
OR for the surgeon to interpret. This, at times, requires
a significant amount of time. In that interval, the surgeon
is not operating but simply waiting for the radiograph to re-
turn before proceeding with the discectomy. Moreover, the
patient is under general anesthesia without surgery moving
forward. Some surgeons do, however, continue operating
while waiting for the radiograph to return; this may further
include soft-tissue dissection and exposure of the spine.
This may be done in an attempt to maximize the downtime
while waiting for the localization radiograph. Options to
decrease the amount of time required include the use of
fluoroscopy and digital radiography. Fluoroscopy permits
real-time localization of the spinal level but is limited by
decreased resolution compared with conventional or digital
radiography. There are significant issues related to image
archival and storage with the use of fluoroscopy that are
obviated by the use of digital imaging.
The investigators hypothesize that conventional radiogra-
phy requires more time for localization and adds unnecessary
inefficiency for correct-level localization. Digital radiogra-
phy and fluoroscopy, while requiring a higher initial invest-
ment for a hospital, permit less time for localization. Digital
radiography provides better image quality, easier manipula-
tion (eg, after processing), and archiving when compared with
fluoroscopy. Due to the aforementioned shortcomings of fluo-
roscopy, this study compares localization with conventional
versus digital radiography. The authors hypothesize that this
will equate to increased efficiency and decrease time under
anesthesia for the patient (safety).
Materials and methods
This is a prospective nonrandomized study of a consecu-
tive series of patients who underwent a single-level anterior
cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) with allograft and
plating. The operations were performed by three surgeons
(MPS, AK, TEM) and were consecutive cases during a 3-
month period. A prestudy power analysis was performed
and indicated the need for approximately five patients in each
group. All the patients underwent a conventional approach to
the cervical spine for the performance of ACDF (Smith Rob-
inson technique). After exposure of the spine, a spinal needle
was placed in the exposed intervertebral disc for localization.
Then, a radiograph was performed with either conventional
or digital radiography. The choice of X-ray modality was
not predetermined and was chosen based on availability.
The time was recorded for each modality in a specific
manner. After placement of the localization needle into
the spine, the technician began moving the equipment into
the operative field for performance of the radiograph. This
was marked as Time 0. This included the time to drape the
X-ray cassette and position the X-ray beam. The X-ray
technician then positioned the machine to perform the
localization X-ray (cross-table lateral cervical radiograph).
The radiograph was configured to the appropriate specifica-
tions as per the patient’s height and weight. Then, the tech-
nician brought the film copy of the cervical radiograph back
to the surgeon for conventional interpretation or the
surgeon read the radiograph on the screen on the machine
for digital interpretation. After interpretation, the surgeon
returned to the operative field, removed the needle, and
resumed operating, and this was marked as Time 1. The
time between 0 and 1 is the X-ray time.
Statistics
Because of small sample sizes and possible deviations
from the normal distribution, a nonparametric method of
Context
Decreasing intraoperative times might provide medical
benefits and conserve value resources. This article as-
sesses time needed to obtain and read conventional ver-
sus digital localization radiographs during ACDF.
Contribution
The authors’ institution found digital radiography to take
less time than conventional films: less than two minutes
compared with nearly 15, respectively.
Implications
Efforts to make operative time more efficient are to be ap-
plauded. Apparent system efficiencies must be weighed
against costs, risks, and technical factors. Does the de-
creased time correlate with decreased overall expense?
Is there a difference in radiation exposure, infection risks,
etc? Are different personnel or skills needed to use the
technologies? What happens when the radiology server
goes down? These questions are unanswered in the
current study.
—The Editors
968 M.P. Steinmetz et al. / The Spine Journal 9 (2009) 967–971

analysis will be used. The Wilcoxon two-sample test with
significance set to 5% (ie, a50.05) will be used to deter-
mine whether the digital radiography process is shorter in
duration than the conventional radiography process.
Results
Eighteen patients were enrolled in this study. Ten pa-
tients underwent localization with conventional radiogra-
phy, whereas eight patients underwent localization using
digital imaging. All the patients underwent single-level
ACDF with allograft and plating (Table 1).
Table 2 describes the average time for X-ray localization
for each group. The mean time for conventional radiogra-
phy was 823 seconds (standard deviation, 159), and for dig-
ital, it was 100 seconds (standard deviation, 34) (Figure).
This difference was found to be statistically significant, us-
ing Wilcoxon two-sample test (S536 and p!.001).
Discussion
To perform accurate and effective spine surgery, the sur-
geon must be confident that he/she is operating at the cor-
rect level. Operating at the wrong level is one of ‘‘the three
sins’’ of lumbar microsurgery [3]. In the modern era, spine
surgeons most often rely on a localization radiograph to de-
termine the correct level. Failure to do so may result in op-
erating on the wrong level. Operating on the wrong level is
one of the most common causes of claims of malpractice
[1]. This requires the surgeon to expose a portion of the
spine and place a marker, such as a needle in the disc space
or a clamp on a portion of the spine. A lateral radiograph is
then performed. Then, the X-ray technician takes the X-ray
cassette, develops and prints the film, and returns it to the
operating room for the surgeon to determine what spinal
level has been exposed. At times, this requires considerable
time, upward of 20 to 30 minutes from the time of shooting
the film until it is read by the surgeon. The cycle time of the
acquisition of information is critical. While maintaining or
even increasing accuracy, decreasing this time will improve
patient safety and improve OR efficiency. Digital imaging
decreases this cycle time of acquisition. The decompression
or discectomy cannot move forward until the localization
radiograph has been interpreted, but it should be stressed
that some surgeons take advantage of the time while wait-
ing and continue with certain portions of the operation,
such as continued soft-tissue dissection or preparation of
the soft-tissue retraction system.
Any option that may reduce this cycle time will improve
efficiency. One option is fluoroscopy. Fluoroscopy does
provide real-time, rapid imaging of the spine, but it pro-
vides a different end product as compared with conven-
tional or digital imaging. Although it might be adequate
for localization, fluoroscopy has less spatial resolution as
compared with digital and conventional radiographs, and
there are significant logistical issues of image archival
and ease of retrieval. Digital radiography provides a high-
resolution image equal to conventional radiography at
a fraction of the time. The images may be manipulated in
the operating room (after processing) and are easily stored
and retrieved. Film-based imaging provides the same
spatial resolution; however, the image cannot be manipu-
lated, there is considerable time for film development,
and lastly the films must be archived in film jackets stored
on shelves.
In the present study, the average time for level localiza-
tion using conventional radiography was approximately 14
minutes, whereas it was approximately 2 minutes for digital
imaging. This difference was found to be statistically sig-
nificant. This difference in time reduces surgeon and surgi-
cal team frustration and total anesthesia time for the patient
and may potentially increase the number of cases that may
be performed in that operating room per day. Decreasing
the time for a procedure, keeping other operational factors
constant, may also be viewed as improving the cost basis
for the procedure. The impact is much larger when one con-
siders that localization is required in every case of spine
surgery, and approximately 175,000 anterior cervical
Table 1
Patients underwent single-level anterior cervical discectomy and fusion
with allograft and plating
Gender Age (y) Level Imaging modality
F 51 C6–C7 Digital
M 50 C5–C6 Digital
F 69 C5–C6 Digital
F 53 C4–C5 Digital
F 42 C5–C6 Digital
F 48 C5–C6 Digital
M 42 C5–C6 Digital
M 45 C6–C7 Digital
M 45 C6–C7 Standard
M 41 C4–C5 Standard
F 62 C4–C5 Standard
F 58 C5–C6 Standard
M 42 C6–C7 Standard
F 50 C6–C7 Standard
M 39 C5–C6 Standard
M 54 C5–C6 Standard
F 44 C5–C6 Standard
F 59 C6–C7 Standard
F, female; M, male.
Table 2
Standard versus digital radiography for intraoperative localization in cases
of single-level anterior cervical discectomy and fusion
Variable Standard Digital
n 10 8
Mean (s) 823.0 99.6
Median (s) 780.0 113.5
Standard deviation (s) 158.76 34.12
Skewness 1.0764 0.8801
Kurtosis 0.0237 0.2715
969 M.P. Steinmetz et al. / The Spine Journal 9 (2009) 967–971

surgeries are performed per year in the United States for
disc diseases [4]. These data underscore potential impacts
of improving efficiency. It is possible that decreasing the
time under general anesthesia may lead to less intra- or
perioperative morbidity for the patient. However, this study
was not designed to assess this. The hospital may save
money if decreasing ‘‘downtime’’ in the OR results in an
increase in efficiency that could, for example, allow more
cases to be done. Conversely, it may also lose money for
the hospital if the time savings do not permit the latter
and instead subtracts from billable OR time because of
the higher efficiency. Finally, variables such as institution
to institution billing paradigms and payer mix (private in-
surances, Medicare, self-pay) all need to be taken into ac-
count before an assessment of whether using digital
imaging for level localization will result in cost savings
for the institution or for the patient. Our study was not de-
signed to assess this, but we think it is a worthwhile en-
deavor to define. Charges and costs are affected by
numerous factors and differ from institution to institution,
but both time and efficiency improvements should translate
into opportunities for all.
A few shortcomings of this study are worthy of discus-
sion. First is the study design. Although prospective, pa-
tients were enrolled in a nonrandomized format.
Randomization may have had an effect on outcome, but
the data acquisition times were similar in both groups, so
this would not have likely had a huge impact. The second
issue is sample size. Only 18 patients were enrolled in this
study. A power analysis was performed before study design
and revealed a need for only five patients in each group
based on the assumption of a difference of approximately
Figure. Histograms of conventional versus digital radiography processes. Comparing mean times, the (Top) conventional radiography process averaged
13:43 (13 min 43 s) and (Bottom) digital radiography process averaged 1:40.
970 M.P. Steinmetz et al. / The Spine Journal 9 (2009) 967–971

18 minutes between imaging modalities. Moreover, the dif-
ferences between groups were large, and the times were
similar within imaging groups. It is unlikely that the addi-
tion of more cases would have an impact on the signifi-
cance of the data. The third issue would be the addition
of fluoroscopy to the study design. The authors do believe
that fluoroscopy would provide a rational, rapid means for
image acquisition. The shortcomings of fluoroscopy (ie,
bulky in the operative field, decreased spatial resolution,
ease of hard copy storage, and archival) limit its use, and
for this reason, it is not included in this study. Lastly, the
study was not designed and did not assess true cost savings.
We are unable then to demonstrate a decreased cost to the
payers based on the data. The increased efficiency and de-
creased operating room time using digital radiographs did
result in a decrease in OR charges, but that cannot be di-
rectly extrapolated into a cost savings. Although it is possi-
ble that decreased OR time could result in a cost savings,
the study was not designed to show this. Other factors
would have to be considered such as the capital investment
required for the imaging modalities and their maintenance.
The cost for performing each type of study (digital vs. con-

ventional) may also differ. For the purposes of this study,
the effectiveness was considered equal between modalities.
This was based on the fact that no image had to be repeated
because of inability to visualize the spinal level or inability
to appropriate count to the index level.
As physicians, we have an obligation to continuously
strive to improve the quality and safety of the care of our
patients. In the rapidly changing economic environment
of health care, we are focused on decreasing cost. This
makes the implementation of new technology at times dif-
ficult. Critically evaluating our processes in an ongoing
fashion in introducing technology where appropriate, occa-
sionally results in situations where we can do both. This is
such the case.
Conclusions
Cervical spine intraoperative imaging is necessary for
correct-level localization in anterior cervical surgery. Op-
tions, including conventional radiography and digital
radiography, exist. Digital radiography provides a rapid
and accurate technique for intraoperative localization and
decreases the cycle time of acquisition of data. It does pro-
vide considerable time savings per case and should theoret-
ically improve patient safety. This study emphasizes the
need to embrace modern technology, critically evaluate
our processes in an ongoing fashion, and improve our
systems and efficiency.
References
[1] Fager CA. Malpractice issues in neurological surgery. Surg Neurol
2006;65:416–21.
[2] Wimmer C, Gluch H. Management of postoperative wound infection
in posterior spinal fusion with instrumentation. J Spinal Disord
1996;9:505–8.
[3] McCulloch JA. Complications (adverse effects). In: McCulloch JA, ed.
Principles of microsurgery for lumbar disc disease. New York, NY:
Raven Press, 1989:225–38.
[4] Merrill Lynch Incorporated. Spine industry report. New York, NY:
Merrill Lynch Inc, 2001.
971 M.P. Steinmetz et al. / The Spine Journal 9 (2009) 967–971
