queueId: ingest-1781569954407-wa2
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260213 태국 MD Healthcard Co., Ltd/251209 보완서류/2.2 [Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector] Technical Document/A-CSDT-23G attachment (Rev.5)/9. Validation and verification/9.6 clinical/9.6.3 literatures/Literature #10.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/ba9cdea3adc3/Literature #10__ba9cdea3adc3_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: ecdbc56195a9
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 406

SOURCE_TEXT
Emerg Radiol (2006) 12: 158–159
DOI 10.1007/s10140-006-0465-0
ORIGINAL ARTICLE
Ben Lee . Joseph Junewick . Charles Luttenton
Effect of digital radiography on emergency department
radiographic examinations
Received: 7 October 2005 / Accepted: 16 December 2005 / Published online: 7 April 2006
# Am Soc Emergency Radiol 2006
Abstract The purpose of this paper is to determine the
time-savings realized as a result of conversion from film-
based radiography to digital radiography (DR) in emer-
gency department patients receiving multiple radiographic
examinations. We retrospectively reviewed the computer
records of 69 patients from the preconversion group
(January 2004) and 62 patients from the postconversion
group (January 2005), calculated the mean examination
time per image from each group, and used a one-tailed t test
to compare the two means. The preconversion (a mix of
screen-film and computed radiography) group had a mean
examination time of 3.27±1.50 min per image. The
postconversion (DR) group had a mean examination time
of 2.51±1.16 min. The p value between the two means is
0.000822 with a standard error of 0.330 min. DR reduces
radiographic examination time by 23% when compared to
conventional screen-film radiography.
Keywords Digital radiography . Emergency department
patients
Introduction
Radiography is currently going through a digital revolu-
tion. In conventional screen-film radiography, obtaining an
image requires exposing and developing films before the
images can be reviewed for technical adequacy by the tech-
nologists and interpreted by the radiologists. The speed of
this process is limited by the speed of the film processing
and takes approximately 2 min for each film. In digital
radiography (DR), electronic detectors capture radiographic
images—either directly with amorphous silicon thin-film
transistors or indirectly through a combination of intensify-
ing screen and photodetectors—and can transmit the results
for viewing by technologists and radiologists in seconds [1].
DR has the additional benefit over traditional screen-film
radiography in that images produced by DR can easily be
incorporated into a picture archival and communication sys-
tem. In such an environment, the current study, prior com-
parison studies, and clinical information can be available to
both treating physicians and interpreting radiologists [2, 3],
which in turn allows quicker interpretation and timely
implementation of treatment plans in conditions such as
occult fractures, abdominal diseases, and pneumonia.
Our institution’s emergency department radiography
equipment was converted from screen-film to DR
equipment (Kodak Direct View 9000, Eastman Kodak,
Rochester, NY, USA) in October 2004. Decreasing the time
patients spend in radiology examination rooms was a driv-
ing force behind the conversion to DR. In this study, we
investigate if, and by how much, DR reduces radiographic
examination time in complex emergency room patients
undergoing three or more radiographic examinations.
Materials and methods
This retrospective case-review study was approved by our
institutional review board. Based on billing records, we
randomly selected patients with three or more radiographic
examinations performed on the same date in the Emergen-
cy Department of our institution, and we looked at their
radiographic examination start and end times as recorded
by technologists in the hospital information system (Cerner
Millennium, Cerner, Kansas City, MO, USA). Sixty-nine
patients from January 2004 were selected and placed in the
preconversion group, which underwent a mixture of con-
ventional screen-film and computed radiography (CR)
B. Lee (*) . J. Junewick . C. Luttenton
Michigan State University–Grand Rapids Medical Education
and Research Center, Radiology Residency,
Grand Rapids, MI, USA
e-mail: benlee@pobox.com
Tel.: +1-616-7326232
J. Junewick . C. Luttenton
Department of Radiology, Spectrum Health,
Grand Rapids, MI, USA
J. Junewick . C. Luttenton
Advanced Radiology Services, P.C.,
Grand Rapids, MI, USA

examinations. Computer records for seven patients in the
group were invalid (same start and end times for the exam),
yielding a total of 62 entries.
Based on the same billing record criteria, another 126
patients from January 2005 were selected and placed in the
postconversion group. Of these, the entries for 58 patients
were invalid because these entries were CR examinations
or had the same start and end exam times, yielding a total of
68 entries. For each entry, the average time spent per image
was derived by dividing the total time (end time minus start
time) by the number of images. We used a one-tailed t test
to compare the means of the average time per image of the
two groups.
Results
Figure 1 is a boxplot of both groups displayed together. In
the preconversion group, the average time per image (both
film and CR) is 3.27 min with a standard deviation of
1.50 min. In the postconversion group, the average time per
image for DR is 2.51 min with a standard deviation of
1.16 min. The p value for the two groups is 0.000822. The
reduction in time from pre- to postconversion is 0.76 min
(standard error 0.330 min) or 23%.
Discussion
We chose patients with three or more radiographic studies
based on the assumption that their conditions may be more
complicated and thus have more to gain by timely im-
plementation of their treatment plans. By using data from
the same time period of the year, we tried to minimize any
difference in the types of radiographic examinations
ordered, e.g., chest radiographs for pneumonia or extremity
radiographs for similar types of trauma (slipping on ice, car
accidents).
We chose January 2005, 3 months after the installation
of the equipment, as our study month in an attempt to
minimize the effect of any operational errors by tech-
nologists due to unfamiliarity with the new equipment.
However, based on anecdotal information from the tech-
nologists, the learning curve for the new DR equipment
was steeper than we anticipated. The computer records did
not include how many DR images were repeated for
individual exams. The only information available to us was
the total repeated images for the whole month of January.
Our internal audit showed that the repeat rate for DR was
1,507 out of 12,124 images in January 2005, or 12.4%. In
comparison, the repeat rate for CR was 537 out of 7,753
images, or 6.9%, during the same month. The implication
of these data is twofold: the learning curve remained steep
at 3 months after installation of the new DR equipment and
that, despite the higher repeat rate, DR still showed a 23%
reduction in time. If the repeat rate was lower, examination
time may have been further reduced.
The technologists record the start and end times of each
examination. Therefore, examination time depends on the
accuracy of their records. We realize that the technologists
may not record the start and end times precisely, but we
assumed that the bias would be systematic and remain the
same for CR/screen-film and DR examinations.
The reduction of time required to perform radiographic
examinations in the emergency radiology department
translates into decreased time for interpretation, quicker
implementation of treatment, and a decreased patient
length of stay. The overall result is improved patient care.
The reduction in examination time with DR may also have
a significant impact on the planning of conversion from
screen-film-based equipment. The reduction of time trans-
lates into increased patient throughput. This in turn means a
reduction in the number of examination rooms needed for
the same output. In our experience, four general diagnostic
screen-film radiography units could be replaced by three
DR units in the emergency department setting.
Conclusion
DR reduces radiographic examination time by 23% when
compared to conventional screen-film radiography.
References
1. Bushberg JT et al. (2002) The essential physics of medical
imaging, 2nd edn. Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Philadelphia
2. Andriole KP (2002) Productivity and cost assessment of
computed radiography, digital radiography, and screen-film
for outpatient chest examinations. J Digit Imaging 15:161–169
3. Redfern RO, Langlotz CP, Abbuhl SB et al. (2002) The effect
of PACS on the time required for technologists to produce
radiographic images in the emergency department radiology
suite. J Digit Imaging 15:153–160
Pre - and Post - Conversion
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Pre-Conversion Post-Conversion
Minutes / Image
1st quart
Min
Median
Mean
Max
3rd quart
Fig. 1 Boxplot of time per image in the preconversion and
postconversion groups
159
