queueId: ingest-1781569954413-11on
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260213 태국 MD Healthcard Co., Ltd/251209 보완서류/2.2 [Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector] Technical Document/A-CSDT-23G attachment (Rev.5)/9. Validation and verification/9.6 clinical/9.6.3 literatures/Literature #16.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/e40c56443b97/Literature #16__e40c56443b97_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 2768c9838769
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 407

SOURCE_TEXT
Productivity and Cost Assessment of Computed Radiography, Digital
Radiography, and Screen-Film for Outpatient Chest Examinations
Katherine P. Andriole
An objective assessment and comparison of com-
puted radiography (CR) versus digital radiography
(DR) and screen-film for performing upright chest
examinations on outpatients is presented in terms of
workflow, productivity, speed of service, and poten-
tial cost justification. Perceived ease of use and
workflow of each device is collected via a technolo-
gist opinion survey. Productivity is measured as the
rate of patient throughput from normalized timing
studies. The overall speed of service is calculated
from the time of examination ordering as stamped in
the radiology information system (RIS), to the time of
image availability on the picture archiving and com-
munication system (PACS), to the time of interpreta-
tion rendered (from the RIS). A cost comparison is
discussed in terms of potential productivity gains and
device expenditures. Comparative results of a screen-
film (analog) dedicated chest unit versus a CR reader
and a DR dedicated chest unit show a higher patient
throughput for the digital systems. A mean of 8.2
patients were moved through the analog chest room
per hour, versus 9.2 patients per hour using the CR
system and 10.7 patients per hour with the DR sys-
tem. This represents a 12% increase in patient
throughput for CR over screen-film; a 30% increase in
patient throughput for DR over screen-film, which is
statistically significant; and a 16% increase in patient
throughput for DR over CR, which is not statistically
significant. Measured time to image availability for
interpretation is much faster for both CR and DR
versus screen-film, with the mean minutes to image
availability calculated as 29.2 ± 14.3 min for screen-
film, 6.7 ± 1.5 min for CR, and 5.7 ± 2.5 min for DR.
This represents an improved time to image availabil-
ity of 77% for CR over screen-film, 80% for DR over
screen-film, and 15% for DR over CR. These results are
statistically significant (P < .0001) for both CR over
screen-film and DR over screen-film but not statisti-
cally significant for DR over CR. A comparison of the
digital technology costs illustrates that the high cost
of DR may not be justifiable unless a facility has a
steady high patient volume to run the device at or
near 100% productivity. Both CR and DR can improve
workflow and productivity over analog screen-film in
a PACS for delivery of projection radiography services
in an outpatient environment. Cost justification for
DR over CR appears to be tied predominantly to high
patient volume and continuous rather than sporadic
use patterns.
KEY WORDS: Computed radiography, digital radiog-
raphy, workflow, PACS assessment
C ONSIDERABLE CONFUSION sur-
rounds the choice of a system for ac-
quiring digital projection radiographs in a
picture archiving and communication system
(PACS) environment. Is an investment in
computed radiography (CR) and/or digital ra-
diography (DR) worthwhile, or is continued use
of conventional screen-film methods more ap-
propriate? This study presents an objective as-
sessment and comparison of CR versus DR and
screen-film in terms of workflow, technologist
productivity, overall speed of service, and po-
tential cost justification for imaging the chest in
ambulatory patients.
At the University of California at San Fran-
cisco (UCSF) Ambulatory Care (Outpatient)
Center (ACC) an outdated chest x-ray room
needed to be replaced. A DR dedicated chest
unit was purchased in anticipation of achieving
the improved radiology workflow and speed of
service reported at other institutions. 1–3 The
workflow and productivity of the two types of
dedicated chest imaging systems at UCSF (a
From the Department of Radiography, University of Cali-
fornia at San Francisco, San Francisco, CA.
Correspondence to: Katherine P. Andriole, Associate Pro-
fessor, Department of Radiology, University of California at
San Francisco, 505 Parnassus Ave., Box 0628, San Francisco,
CA 94143-0628; tel: 415-476-3924; fax: 415-502-3217;
e-mail: kathy.andriole@radiology.ucsf.edu
Copyright
Ó 2003 SCAR (Society for Computer
Applications in Radiology)
Online publication 21 January 2003
doi: 10.1007/s10278-002-0026-3
Journal of Digital Imaging, Vol 15, No 3 (September) 2002: pp 161-169 161

DR device and a conventional screen-film de-
vice) were compared for delivery of projection
radiography services to ambulatory patients. 4
A similar situation existed in our outpatient
services–only community medical center at Mt
Zion, where a CR reader was purchased to
update projection x-ray imaging there. After
installation and technologist training on the
new device, an objective assessment was per-
formed for the multipurpose CR scanner. These
results were compared with those for the two
types of dedicated chest units (analog versus
digital).5 This study extended our previous
work to include a comparison among three
projection radiography modalities, CR, DR,
and screen-film.
Findings from both studies showed an im-
provement in workflow and productivity for the
digital modalities over analog screen-film.
Similar results were shown in a study by Reiner
and Siegel.6 A study by Dalla Palma et al 7
compared the operating and investment costs of
a conventional radiographic system and a CR
device for one year’s worth of chest and skeletal
x-ray examinations. They noted that although
the digital radiography system had a much
higher investment cost than the conventional
system, the operating costs and the total costs,
including the variable, technology, and labor
costs of CR could be lower. Note that film was
used as the output device for both the analog
and digital methodologies. Therefore, the time
to reach a break-even point varied depending
on the size of film used. The investigators found
that if 8’’ · 10’’ film could be used for the x-ray
examinations, a break-even point would be
achieved after one year accounting for 10,000
studies. However, if 11’’ · 14’’ film was used, a
break-even point would not be reached until
30,000 examinations were performed.
Because others investigators have shown the
cost benefits of digital technology over analog
screen-film, the present study addresses the
comparative costs of the two digital modalities,
namely CR versus DR, for performing a two-
view upright chest examination. In this exami-
nation of cost, image interpretation takes place
in a soft-copy reading environment, which
eliminates the costs associated with the printing
and management film. Cost assessment is based
on the productivity measures determined in the
workflow experiments and on device expendi-
tures.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Two outpatient settings were used for comparison of the
three projection radiography modalities. These included the
UCSF Ambulatory Care Center, which performs an average
of 50 upright chest x-ray examinations per day, and the Mt
Zion Community Hospital, which performs an average of
30 such examinations per day. The Ambulatory Care Center
received the DR chest unit, and the community hospital
received the multipurpose CR reader.
At UCSF, and including Mt Zion, a full departmental
PACS is in place, with Web-based enterprise wide distri-
bution to specialty referring clinicians and locations outside
the Department of Radiology. These outpatient environ-
ments have been one of the last areas in the UCSF health
care enterprise to go to digital image acquisition and
display. The investment in digital projection radiography,
as well as the deployment of a Web distribution and dis-
play application, has enabled further reduction in film
printing and management costs for delivery of diagnostic
imaging services to clients outside the Department of
Radiology.
The analog device compared in this study was the Picker
International, Cleveland, OH, which is now Philips Medical
System, Bothell, WA) VTX650 Chest Unit attached to a
Kodak (Rochester, NY) RP X-omat processor (Fig. 1). The
distribution procedure followed for the analog device for the
productivity and timing experiments was as follows. Once
the film was processed, the technologist delivered the study
to the film library where a film librarian delivered the film jac-
ket to the chest reading room, recording the time of deliv-
ery. Images were interpreted on a traditional film alternator.
The DR device compared in this study is a General
Electric (Milwaukee, WI) Digital Radiographic XQ/I Chest
System (Fig. 2). It consists of an amorphous silicon flat panel
detector with a cesium iodide scintillator. The CR reader is a
Fuji (Stamford, CT) SmartCR. Both systems are integrated
fully with the UCSF departmental PACS (Agfa Medical,
Ridgefield Park, NJ), and the radiology information system
(IDXRad, Burlington, VT) giving them modality worklist
link features for automatic association of patient demo-
graphic information with image data. Both also have digital
imaging and communications in medicine (DICOM) auto-
sending capabilities. Primary diagnostic interpretations were
read soft-copy on dual-headed workstations with high-res-
olution (2.5 K · 2 K), high-brightness monitors.
All technologists were adequately trained on the new
digital devices, and all had several months of experience
before initiation of study measurements. The following four
measurements were made for all three devices: patient
throughput, image availability, workflow/ease-of-use, and
reliability. Patient throughput was measured as the time a
patient entered the chest procedure room subtracted from
the time that patient exited the room. A measure of pro-
ductivity was calculated as the rate of patient throughput
expressed as the number of patients moved through the
room per hour. Image availability reflecting speed of service
162 KATHERINE P. ANDRIOLE

Fig 1. The analog device examined in this study including the upright chest unit, the control console, and the film processor.
PRODUCTIVITY AND COST ASSESSMENT OF CR, DR, AND SCREEN-FILM 163

was measured as the time a patient entered the chest pro-
cedure room subtracted from the time the imaging exami-
nation was available in the reading room. For the digital
devices, image availability time was measured directly from
the PACS database.
Workflow, ease of use, and reliability assessments were
made from a technologist opinion survey in which the
technologists were asked to rate the overall speed, perfor-
mance, ease of use, and reliability of either CR or DR versus
screen-film, using the following scale: )2, film much better
than digital; )1, film better than digital; 0, film and digital
the same; +1, digital better than film; +2, digital much
better than film. Any device malfunctions were noted via the
technologist opinion survey.
Fig 2. The DR device examined in this study including the upright chest unit, the RIS-linked control console, and a dual monitor,
high-resolution display workstation.
164 KATHERINE P. ANDRIOLE

Measurements were taken over 2-week periods for the
analog and digital systems, spanning approximately 500
chest examinations per period. Measurements were made
throughout a typical workday and workweek, covering peri-
ods of constant activity as well as sporadic activity. All studies
included in the analysis were two-view upright chest exam-
inations. Statistical analysis was performed individually,
calculating two-tailed P values using an unpaired t test.
The cost comparison is done for CR versus DR only,
with soft-copy image interpretation and digital delivery and
archival. Thus, in this assessment, the costs associated with
film printing and management are considered negligible for
both modalities. The factors considered in the approxima-
tion of cost include equipment purchase, device infrastruc-
ture costs, space, power, and maintenance, balanced against
device productivity and performance.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Comparative results of patient throughput
and time to image availability for interpretation
for screen-film (analog), CR, and DR are shown
in Table 1 and graphically presented in Figs. 3
and 4. Patient throughput is expressed as the
average number of patients moved through the
diagnostic room per hour. Time to image
availability for interpretation is expressed as the
mean time in minutes plus or minus the standard
deviation. The range of time to image avail-
ability is also measured for each device and is
expressed as the minimum and maximum times
in minutes. The percent improvements in patient
throughput, seen as an increase, and in time to
image availability, seen as a decrease, also are
given, comparing the screen-film or analog de-
vice with CR and with DR, and comparing CR
with DR. The P values calculated for analog
versus CR, analog versus DR, and CR versus
DR for patient throughput and for time to im-
age availability also are tabulated.
Note that patient throughput is higher for the
digital systems. A mean of 8.2 patients were
moved through the analog chest room per hour,
and 9.2 patients were moved per hour using
CR, versus 10.7 patients per hour for DR. This
represents a 12% increase in patient throughput
for CR over screen-film, a 30% increase in pa-
tient throughput for DR over screen-film, and a
16% increase in patient throughput for DR over
CR. These results are only statistically signifi-
cant for patient throughput measures for the
DR device over analog screen-film with a P
value less than .05 (P = .0394). The two-tailed
P value calculated using an unpaired t test for
the CR device over analog screen-film is
P = .2296, and P = .0615 for DR versus CR,
neither of which are statistically significant.
The measured time to image availability for
interpretation was much faster for both CR and
DR versus screen-film. Both CR and DR are
statistically significantly faster than analog
screen-film, with P values less than .0001. The
mean minutes to image availability plus or
minus the standard deviation were calculated as
29.2 ± 14.3 min for screen film, 6.7 ± 1.5 min
for CR, and 5.7 ± 2.5 min for DR. This repre-
sents an improved time to image availability of
77% for CR over screen-film, 80% for DR over
screen-film, and 15% for DR over CR. The two-
tailed P value calculated using an unpaired t test
for the DR device over CR is not statistically
significant, with a P value of .2068.
As can be seen from the large standard de-
viation in image availability measurements for
Table 1. Comparative Results of Performance for Screen-Film (analog) and DR-Dedicated Chest Units and a CR Device in Terms
of Average Patient Throughput and Average Time to Image Availability for Interpretation
% Improvement
(P Value)
Analog CR DR CR vs Analog DR vs Analog DR vs CR
Patient throughput (# per hour) 8.2 9.2 10.7 12% 30% 16%
P = .2296 P = .0394 P = .0615
Image Availability
Average minutes ± SD
29.2 ± 14.3 6.7 ± 1.5 5.7 ± 2.5 77%
P < .0001
80%
P < .0001
15%
P = .2068
Range availability
(minimum, maximum)
(13, 52) (5, 13) (2, 10)
NOTE. Patient throughput is expressed as the average number of patients entering and leaving the Radiology Department per
hour. Statistically significant results are in bold.
PRODUCTIVITY AND COST ASSESSMENT OF CR, DR, AND SCREEN-FILM 165

screen-film, the range of times from minimum
to maximum for the analog device was 13 min–
52 min. Both CR and DR exhibit much less
variability, with CR ranging from 5 min to 13
min and DR ranging from 2 min to 10 min.
Fifteen x-ray technologists with experience on
either CR or DR unanimously preferred the dig-
ital modalities over the film-based system. The
technologists rated the DR system as ‘‘Much
Better’’ (+2) than film for all areas (including
speed, performance, and ease of use) except for
reliability, for which the average rating was
+1.7, or between ‘‘Better’’ and ‘‘Much Better’’
than film. Interestingly, the only reported device
malfunction was with the DR system. Similarly
for CR, technologists rated it ‘‘Better’’ to ‘‘Much
Better’’ (+1 to +2) for all categories.
A number of broad assumptions are made in
the following cost justification discussion com-
paring CR with DR. The first approximates the
costs associated with film printing and film
management to be zero (and equivalent) for the
two modalities because image interpretation,
delivery, and archival are all done digitally.
Since file sizes are roughly the same for CR and
DR and both are DICOM-compatible formats,
PACS infrastructure costs for network trans-
mission, image archival, and display will be
considered equal.
Power and space also will be taken as
equivalent, although one could argue that siting
costs are higher for DR, particularly consider-
ing that a DR device is tied to one room and
may require x-ray tube and generator replace-
ment costs, whereas one CR reader can be used
to service multiple rooms simultaneously and
can be used with existing x-ray tubes and gen-
erators. Finally, an approximation of equiva-
lence will be made in equipment maintenance
for both devices even though service contracts
typically are a percentage (between 8% and
14%) of the original equipment list price. It
could be argued that consumable costs in terms
of the imaging plates (at approximately $500
per pair of 14’’ · 17’’ plates) are higher for CR.
However, DR detector ‘‘glassware’’ replace-
ment, often not included in maintenance con-
tracts, can cost between $85,000 and $145,000.
The charges for a two-view upright chest
examination are the same regardless of whether
the images are obtained with CR or DR. The
approximate charge at UCSF is $200 per ex-
amination, including a $130 technical fee and a
$70 professional fee. Based on these gener-
al approximations, a discussion of cost justifi-
cation between CR and DR simplifies as
follows. Cost includes only that of the individ-
ual modality equipment, and comparative rev-
enues include only that gained in productivity

and performance.
The July 2002 issue of Advance for Imaging
and Oncology Administrators lists current costs
for the devices examined in this study as fol-
lows. The Fuji SmartCR lists for $95,000. The
GE XQ/i DR Chest System costs from $360,000
to $425,000. Other CR devices can cost more at
$125,000 for a Fuji 5501 single-sided upright
chest reader, $195,000 for the Fuji 5501 speed
suite (which includes an x-ray tube and gener-
ator), and $275,000 to $350,000 for dual-sided
reading, energy subtraction, and other capabil-
ities. Other DR devices list in the same range as
the device used in this study. For example, the
Hologic CR 1000C (Bedford, MA) is priced at
$375,000, the Kodak CR5100 device (Roches-
ter, NY) is priced at $350,000, the Philips Dig-
ital Diagnost VR (Bothell, WA) is priced
between $520,000 and $620,000, and the Sie-
mens Thorax FD (Malvern, PA) is in the range
of $500,000. For the purposes of this discussion,
the device cost for CR will be taken as $95,000
and the cost for DR will be taken as $395,000,
for a differential of $300,000.
In comparing performance, if an imaging
facility had the patient volume to operate the
Fig 3. Graphical results of performance for screen-film
(analog) and digital radiography (DR) dedicated chest units,
and a computed radiography (CR) device, in terms of patient
throughput. Patient throughput is expressed as average
number of patients imaged per hour.
166 KATHERINE P. ANDRIOLE

imaging device at 100% capacity, the following
efficiencies would be possible:
This results in a differential of $600,000 per
year more with DR than with CR.
These calculations were repeated for operat-
ing each modality at 75%, 50%, and 25% device
capacity. The volume of patients that could be
imaged in a day, the number of examinations
performed per year, the dollars generated per
year, and the revenue differential per year for
CR and DR at these device capacities are given
in Table 2 and graphed in Fig. 5. It can be seen
that to cost justify purchasing DR over CR,
device capacity must approach 50% to ‘‘break
even’’ with the cost differential of $300,000 in
one year. This is equivalent to concluding that if
an imaging facility has a patient volume of 42.8
patients per day, DR can be more cost effective
than CR. In other words, if a facility has a
continuous patient flow of at least 5.35 patients
per hour, then DR may be costeffective.
Although this financial analysis is not rigor-
ous and many assumptions have been made, the
results do suggest that the increased produc-
 With CR
9.2 patients/hour · 8 hours/day = 73.6 patients/day
· 250 workdays/year = 18,400 examinations/year
@ $200/examination = $3.68 million/year.
 With DR
10.7 patients/hour · 8 hours/day = 85.6 patients/day
· 250 workdays/year = 21,400 examinations year
@ $200/examination = $4.28 million/year.
Table 2. Performance Versus Cost Assessment
% Capacity # Patients/h # Patients/d # Exams/yr Yearly Revenues
Yearly Differential
(DR over CR)
[100%.] CR 9.2 73.6 18,400 $3.68 Mil $600,000
[100%.] DR 10.7 85.6 21,400 $4.28 Mil
[75%.] CR 6.9 55.2 13,800 $2.76 Mil $450,000
[75%.] DR 8.025 64.2 16,050 $3.21 Mil
[50%.] CR 4.6 36.8 9,200 $1.84 Mil $300,000
[50%.] DR 5.35 42.8 10,700 $2.14 Mil
[25%.] CR 2.3 18.4 4,600 $0.92 Mil $150,000
[25%.] DR 6.15 21.4 5,350 $1.07 Mil
Fig 4. Graphical results for screen-film (analog) and digital radiography (DR) dedicated chest units, and a computed radiography
(CR) device time to image availability for interpretation. Image availability is expressed as the mean time, with the range of times
measured for each device expressed as the minimum and maximum times to image availability, all in minutes.
PRODUCTIVITY AND COST ASSESSMENT OF CR, DR, AND SCREEN-FILM 167

tivity in patient throughput achievable with DR
over CR may not always be cost justifiable. For
example, a setting with average to low volumes
of roughly 40 patients per day or fewer, where
the increased device capacity achievable with
DR cannot be realized, there is no cost advan-
tage. In contrast, CR may be cost justified with
a relatively low volume of patients per day or a
flow of 4.5 patients per hour.
CONCLUSIONS
Timing studies indicate that a DR dedicated
chest device can increase patient throughput
over CR in an outpatient environment per-
forming two-view chest x-rays on approxi-
mately 50 patients per day, although the
increased throughput is not statistically signifi-
cant. Both CR and DR achieve higher patient
throughput over screen-film. Thus, the patient
can be released from the Radiology Department
sooner with the digital modalities than with the
screen-film system. In addition, the digital units
are perceived by x-ray technologists to improve
workflow, to be easier to use, and to be
more reliable. In addition, the use of either CR
or DR over screen-film can increase the overall
speed of service from examination ordering to
interpretation available in a PACS environ-
ment. Both CR and DR are comparable in this
regard.
It appears that the use of DR for upright
chest examinations is an excellent application of
this technology. In a high-volume outpatient
ambulatory care setting, DR can provide the
most improved workflow and technologist
productivity. The CR device also improves
workflow over screen-film and can serve multi-
ple x-ray rooms and be used for most general
radiography studies, as well as the upright chest
examinations.
It remains to be shown in a low-volume setting
whether the increased technologist productivity
can justify the high cost of DR over CR, partic-
ularly during periods of spurious rather than
continuous patient flow. The time saved with DR
systems may not currently justify the increased
cost of DR over CR. Better service to referring
colleagues by faster time to interpretation
achieved with both CR and DR may be the more
significant improvement in workflow. Faster re-
lease of patients from the Radiology Department
achieved with DR may justify the cost for the
high-volume imaging facility, however.
REFERENCES
1. Dackiewicz D, Bergsneider C, Piraino D: Impact of
digital radiography on clinical workflow and patient satis-
faction. J Digit Imaging 13:200-201, 2000
2. Mack S, Holstein J, Kleber K, et al: New aspects of
image distribution and workflow in radiology. J Digit Im-
aging 13:17-21, 2000
Fig 5. Performance versus revenue differential at various device capacities. The y axis has the yearly revenue differential
achieved for DR over CR in thousands of dollars versus percent device capacity operation on the x axis. The dashed line shows the
revenue differential at which DR is cost justified over CR. The point of intersection marks the capacity at which the yearly revenue
differential cost justifies the purchase of DR over CR.
168 KATHERINE P. ANDRIOLE

3. May GA, Deer DD, Dackiewicz D: Impact of digital
radiography on clinical workflow. J Digit Imaging 13:76-78,
2000
4. Andriole KP, Luth DM, Gould RG: Workflow com-
parison of DR and screen-film dedicated chest systems.
SPIE, Medical Imaging 2001. Physics of Medical Imaging,
San Diego, February 17–22, 2001
5. Andriole KP, Luth DM, Gould RG, et al: Workflow
assessment of digital versus computed radiography and
screen-film in the outpatient environment. J Digit Imaging
15(Suppl):124-126, 2002
6. Reiner BI, Siegel EL: Technologists’ producti-
vity when using PACS: Comparison of film-based ver-
sus filmless radiography. Am J Roentgenol 179:33-37,
2002
7. Dalla Palma L, Grisi G, Cuttin R, et al: Digital vs
conventional radiography: Cost and revenue analysis. Eur
Radiol 9:1682-1692, 1999
PRODUCTIVITY AND COST ASSESSMENT OF CR, DR, AND SCREEN-FILM 169
