queueId: ingest-1781569954383-cr0
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260520 우크라이나(Licarno) 23G, P1 - 이창민 팀장님/260527 1차 제출본/3.1 [Portable X-ray System] Technical Document/6. Product Verification and Validation/5. Clinical Evaluation Report/Literature/# 24.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/2568d40f84e5/# 24__2568d40f84e5_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: bbd9558a5d55
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 409

SOURCE_TEXT
Original Research
Experience of the Usage of a Portable X-ray System
Kazuhiko Omori, MD, PhD, Ken-ichi Muramatsu, MD, Hiroki Nagasawa, MD,
Ikuto Takeuchi, MD, Yoshihiro Kushida, MD, Hiromichi Ohsaka, MD, PhD,
Kei Jitsuiki, MD, PhD, Yasumsa Oode, MD, PhD, Youichi Yanagawa, MD, PhD *
Department of Acute Critical Care Medicine, Shizuoka Hospital, Juntendo University, Izunokuni City, Shizuoka, Japan
A B S T R A C T
Objective: The purpose of this study was to introduce the use of a portable X-ray system by the staff members
of a doctor helicopter (DH).
Methods: From January 11 to 18, 2019, we were given temporary access to a portable X-ray system. This period
is defined as the investigation term. During the investigation term, a medical chart review was retrospectively
performed for all patients who were transported by the DH. We investigated the variables between cases in
which an X-ray study had been performed (X-ray group) and had not been performed (control group).
Results: Thirteen subjects were classified into the X-ray group, and 17 were classified into the control group.
No X-ray studies were performed for patients who underwent interhospital transportation, and the propor-
tion of cases involving patients with exogenous disease in the X-ray group was greater than that in the con-
trol group.
Conclusion: We reported our experience of DH staff performing X-ray studies at the scene. Further studies are
required to determine the indications for using portable X-ray systems in the prehospital setting.
© 2019 Air Medical Journal Associates. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
X-ray studies are performed daily in medical facilities. FUJIFILM
(Tokyo, Japan) developed a portable X-ray system called the CALNEO
Xair.1,2 The X-ray radiation machine weighs 3.5 kg (Fig. 1). This sys-
tem can be transported by an ambulance or helicopter. 1,2 Only 1 phy-
sician can perform an X-ray examination at the scene and check the
image on the computer display, which is transmitted electronically
after the X-ray examination (Fig. 2). 3 Our hospital is the physician-
staffed helicopter base (called a doctor helicopter [DH] in Japan) for
eastern Shizuoka Prefecture. The DH is dispatched to perform early
medical intervention in the prehospital setting for patients with
exogenous and endogenous diseases. 4 This system was developed for
use in home medical care, a prehospital disaster setting, or medical
clinics. We fortunately received the opportunity to try out the CAL-
NEO Xair system through a promotion by FUJIFILM at a medical con-
ference. The purpose of this article was to introduce our experience
of the use of a portable X-ray system by the staff members of a physi-
cian-staffed helicopter (DH) on the activities of the DH staff.
Methods
The protocol of this retrospective study was approved by the
review board of our hospital, and all examinations were conducted in
accordance with the standards of good clinical practice and the Dec-
laration of Helsinki.
From January 11, 2019, to January 18, 2019, we had temporary
access to a CALNEO Xair system. This period was defined as the inves-
tigation term. Because this system was only carried by the helicopter,
there were no regulations concerning carrying the materials. Before
performing any prehospital portable X-ray studies, we participated
in a roughly 30-minute lecture on how to use this machine from the
staff of FUJIFILM. The X-ray study was performed inside a ground
ambulance at the rendezvous zone or on the scene because the inside
of the DH was too narrow to comfortably perform the examination.
After the X-ray study had been completed, we used a smartphone
image transmitting system to share the imaging information among
the medical staff at the scene and at the hospital. 5 In the investigation
period, 1 doctor was added to the staff to perform X-ray studies.
During the investigation term, a medical chart review was retro-
spectively performed for all patients transported by the DH, and
Supported by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology−
Supported Program for the Strategic Research Foundation at Private Universities, 2015-
2019.
Presented at the 2019 Critical Care Transport Medicine Conference Scientific Forum,
April 15, 2019, Albuquerque, New Mexico.
*Address for correspondence: Youichi Yanagawa, MD, PhD, 1129 Nagaoka, Izunokuni
City, Shizuoka, Japan 410-2295
E-mail address: yyanaga@juntendo.ac.jp (Y. Yanagawa).
1067-991X/$36.00
© 2019 Air Medical Journal Associates. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.amj.2019.09.018
ARTICLE IN PRESS
Air Medical Journal 000 (2019) 1−4
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Air Medical Journal
j o u r n a l h o m e p a g e : h t t p : / / w w w . a i r m e d i c a l j o u r n a l . c o m /

these patients were included as subjects in the present study. The
exclusion criterion was cancellation of the DH dispatch, even when
a call to dispatch the DH had been made. We collected data on each
subject’s sex, age, details of dispatch (to the scene or interhospital
transportation), endogenous or exogenous disease status, clinical
diagnosis, contents of treatment, whether or not an X-ray study was
performed, region of X-ray, treatment at the scene, time at the
scene, and outcome (survival or death). At the scene, the activities
of the staff of the DH were as follows: checking vital signs, perform-
ing physiological examinations, securing the venous route, perform-
ing ultrasound studies, performing electrocardiograms, securing an
airway or performing invasive medical intervention if necessary,
Figure 1. A portable X-ray system. The X-ray radiation machine weighs 3.5 kg.
Figure 2. A depiction of how to perform the X-ray study and check the image. The X-ray results are transmitted from the machine to a notebook-type personal computer wirelessly.
ARTICLE IN PRESS
2 K. Omori et al. / Air Medical Journal 00 (2019) 1
−4

and sending messages concerning patients’ information to the final
destination, in addition to performing the X-ray studies. Accord-
ingly, we believed that the time at the scene reflected the overall
activity of the staff of the DH. In addition, we investigated these var-
iables between cases in which an X-ray study was performed (X-ray
group) and those in which an X-ray study was not performed (con-
trol group).
Results
During the investigation term, there were 30 DH dispatches.
Among them, 2 dispatches were canceled because the patient’s con-
dition was found to be stable after emergency medical technicians
performed a check. After excluding these 2 dispatch cancellations,
the remaining 28 dispatches with 31 patients were included in this
study.
The background characteristics of the subjects are shown in
Table 1. The results of the 2 groups are provided in Table 2. Thirteen
subjects were classified into the X-ray group, and 17 were classified
into the control group. With the exception of 1 subject who was
involved in a car accident but had no significant trauma findings, all
subjects received medical treatment from the DH staff in the preho-
spital setting. In all cases involving patients who were in cardiac
arrest when the DH reached the scene, the patient ultimately died.
We experienced the case of a 33-year-old woman who made a
right turn in her car at a crossroad and collided with another car,
causing her vehicle to tip onto its side. The DH staff checked her at
the scene, and the findings of chest and pelvic X-ray studies were all
negative (Fig. 3). She was diagnosed with cervical sprain and pelvic
contusion and was transferred to a local hospital by ambulance.
Discussion
The present study shows that no X-ray studies were performed
for patients who underwent interhospital transportation and that
proportions of cases in which the DH was dispatched to the scene
and cases involving patients with exogenous disease in the X-ray
group was greater in comparison with the control group. One possi-
ble explanation for the difference according to the type of dispatch
is that all of the subjects who underwent interhospital transporta-
tion had already undergone radiologic studies in the referring hos-
pital; thus, the DH staff might have considered additional X-ray
studies to be unnecessary in such cases. Most of the cases of exoge-
nous disease in the present study involved trauma. The severity of
trauma is assessed according to vital signs and anatomic abnormal-
ity. One possible explanation for this result is that a radiologic study
(even a plain X-ray study) is essential for the evaluation of anatomic
abnormalities.
In the present study, 1 physician was added to perform the X-ray
study in the prehospital setting. This staff member tried to avoid
obstructing the original staff members when they were treating the
patient in the ambulance. Because it is difficult to perform radical
treatments for patients in a life-threatening situation in the preho-
spital setting, we believed it would be best to add another physician
or radiologic technician who could manage this system separately
in order to shorten the time at the scene. However, it should be
noted that a single physician is sufficient to perform medical inter-
ventions, including X-ray studies, in a prehospital setting. We can-
not suggest a possible explanation for the sex difference in the
present study.
Through our trial use of this portable X-ray system, we experi-
enced a few cases in which the management or destination was
changed based on the portable X-ray findings. 1,3 Therefore, we
believe that this machine can facilitate choosing the optimal strat-
egy to treat traumatized or critically ill patients in the prehospital
setting. A prehospital X-ray system will be useful for detecting ana-
tomic abnormalities, such as trauma, infection, or fluid collection.
For example, we consider it important to diagnose aortic injury, dia-
phragmatic rupture, massive free air of the intra-abdomen, spinal
fracture, unstable pelvic fracture, open fracture without any defor-
mity of an extremity, the position of medical instruments, or the
location of any metallic foreign body by X-ray studies. These radio-
logic findings are not easy to diagnose by an ultrasound study. Of
note, X-ray has a limited ability to detect intracranial lesions and
intra-abdominal lesions, such as minor free air or fluid collection,
both of which can be easily detected by computed tomographic
imaging in a hospital setting.
We did encounter some difficulties in using/fielding this portable
X-ray system. Because this system was not developed for use in or to
be carried by a helicopter, there was no way to calibrate the device
after exposure to the vibratory stresses of the aircraft. Accordingly,
vibration because of helicopter transport may have influenced the
function of the system. Furthermore, this system has a number of
complications associated with performing an X-ray study, such as the
need for training to operate this system, the need for temperature
regulation when using the film cassette (the cassette does not work
in temperatures < 4°C), and the need to charge the materials before
use.
Table 2
Results of the Statistical Analysis of the X-ray and Control Groups
X-ray Group (n = 13) Control Group (n = 17)
Age 57.3 § 24.0 61.1 § 6.6
Sex 7/6 14/3
Scene/interhospital transportation 13/11 0/5
Endogenous/exogenous disease 8/5 5/12
Cardiac arrest: yes/no 1/12 4/13
Treatments: yes/no 12/1 17/0
Time at the scene (minutes) 15.2 § 6.2 13.3 § 4.5
Outcome survival/death 13/4 12/1
Table 1
Background Characteristics of the Subjects (N = 30)
Sex Male/female 21/9
Age (years) Range = 0-90, average = 59.5 § 25.6
Scene/interhospital transportation 24/6
Endogenous/exogenous disease 17/13
Clinical diagnosis (in total)
Acute coronary syndrome 4
Aortic dissection 2
Stroke 4
Consciousness disturbance 2
Pneumonia 3
Thrombosis at extremity 1
Cardiac arrest 5
Trauma 13
Head 8
Chest 1
Spinal cord 3
Extremity 4
Burn 1
Hypothermia 1
Treatment 29
Infusion 29
Oxygen 26
Tracheal intubation 7
Thoracotomy 1
X-ray examination 13
Region of X-ray examination
Head 1
Chest 9
Pelvic 3
Extremity 2
Scene time (minute) Range = 5-30, average = 14.1 § 5.3
Outcome survival/death 25/5
ARTICLE IN PRESS
K. Omori et al. / Air Medical Journal 00 (2019) 1
−4 3

Our study is associated with several limitations. The first limitation is
its retrospective nature and the small patient population. Second, we
did not have the quality of the images reviewed by a radiologist because
the X-ray images were not transferred to the in-hospital X-ray checking
system in the present study. Had we done so, a double-reader evalua-
tion might have improved the diagnostic sensitivity and the patient out-
come. Third, because this study had no unifying protocol regarding the
use of this X-ray system, we performed the studies according to each
physician’s discretion. Accordingly, there were no rules set concerning
the use of this system. Fourth, several unsolved clinical questions
remain regarding whether the addition of the portable X-ray system led
to an increase or decrease in surgical interventions (such as chest tube
placement) and whether or not transport destination decisions were
influenced by the use of the device. Thus, future prospective studies
involving a greater number of patients with a comparison of the final
outcome are needed to further assess the significance of our findings.
Conclusion
This study introduced our experience of the use of a portable X-
ray system by the staff members of a physician-staffed helicopter.
Further studies are needed to determine the indications for using
portable X-ray systems in the prehospital setting.
References
1. Omori K, Ishikawa K, Muramatsu K, et al. The utility of a portable X-ray system. Air
Med J. 2019;38:212–214.
2. Yanagawa Y, Ohsaka H, Oode Y, Omori K. A case of fatal trauma evaluated using a
portable X-ray system at the scene. J Rural Med (in press).
3. Omori K, Yanagawa Y, Muramatsu K, et al. Experience using a portable X-ray system
at the scene transported by a physician-staffed helicopter. Acute Med Surg.
2019;6:396–399.
4. Omori K, Ishikawa K, Nagasawa H, et al. Prognostic factors of cardiopulmonary
arrest patients by a physician-staffed helicopter. Air Med J. 2018;37:312–316.
5. Yanagawa Y, Jitsuiki K, Nagasawa H, et al. A smartphone video transmission system
for verification of transfusion. Air Med J. 2019;38:125–128.
Figure 3. Chest and pelvic X-ray studies at the scene.3 They are all negative.
ARTICLE IN PRESS
4 K. Omori et al. / Air Medical Journal 00 (2019) 1
−4
