queueId: ingest-1781569954393-ml8
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/250908 2,3G, P1 사우디 등록서류 - 이창민 팀장님/Portable X-ray System/9. Validation and verification/9.6 clinical evaluation report/9.6.3 Cited literatures/4. Taking acute medical imaging to the patient, the domiciliary based X-ray response team.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/70269d7d0de1/4. Taking acute medical imaging to the patient, the domiciliary based X-ray resp__70269d7d0de1_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: cad2ce7a6dda
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 411

SOURCE_TEXT
Technical note
Taking acute medical imaging to the patient, the domiciliary based
X-ray response team
S. Mark*, D. Henderson, J. Brealey
Northumbria Healthcare Trust, UK
a r t i c l e i n f o
Article history:
Received 5 October 2021
Received in revised form
11 January 2022
Accepted 12 January 2022
Available online 2 February 2022
Keywords:
Domiciliary
Multi-disciplinary
Team
Reducing
Conveyance
X ray
a b s t r a c t
Objectives: In 2019 NHS England and NHS Improvement announced their strategy to safely reduce the
number of patients who are unnecessarily conveyed into a hospital setting by 2023. The recent coro-
navirus pandemic emphasised the importance of reducing avoidable conveyance. Consequently, a
multidisciplinary team consisting of a Paramedic, Radiographer and Emergency Care Clinician was
created to respond to Category 3 and 4 calls to assess patients in their own home using an array of
specialised diagnostic equipment including a lightweight portable X-ray unit supplied by Fujifilm, the
FDR Xair. This team was named the X-ray response team (XRT).
Key findings: Over a 7-month period the team attended 54 calls, the majority of which were in the
patient's private residence (86%), the overall average age of the patients attended was 80 years. A patient
survey found 100% of respondents rated the service as very good with 100% also feeling that they were
treated with respect and dignity. The team reduced avoidable conveyance by 50% as 27 of the 54 patients
were discharged on scene and kept at home.
Conclusion: Proof of concept was achieved. The XRT improved patient care and experience as patients
were assessed and diagnosed in their home environment which also minimised the risk of contracting
hospital acquired infections.
Implications for practice: The XRT reduced avoidable conveyance by 50% with 100% of the patient's
involved providing positive feedback. The team are exploring new pathways that would allow direct
referral to specialist teams in the hospital such as care of the elderly and orthopaedics which would:
improve patient experience, ease A&E pressures, reduce costs and make the most effective use of the
resources available.
© 2022 The College of Radiographers. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Introduction
This technical note aims to outline the details of the X-ray
response team (XRT), the reasons for its creation and how proof of
concept was achieved.
Background
In 2019, the National Health Service Improvement (NHSI) and
NHS England (NHSE) amalgamated with the objective of modernis-
ing the NHS into an innovative, efficient and financially
stable healthcare system that provides safe and high-quality
compassionate care.1 A main aim of NHSI/E is to reduce avoidable
hospital conveyance by 2023 however it is accepted that safely
reducing avoidable conveyance is a systemwide responsibility
and a multi-disciplinary team working approach is crucial to
success.1
The recent coronavirus pandemic emphasised the importance of
reducing avoidable conveyance so that hospitals could retain ca-
pacity for the critically ill and minimise the risk of hospital
acquired infections to vulnerable demographics. 2 Consequently,
the Northumbria Radiology and Emergency Departments collabo-
rated with the North East Ambulance Service (NEAS) to pilot a
domiciliary based service called the X-ray Response Team (XRT).
The team was only operational at weekends and relied upon the
enthusiasm of volunteers.
* Corresponding author. Radiology, North Tyneside General Hospital, Rake Lane,
North Shields, NE29 8NH, UK.
E-mail address: stuart.mark@northumbria-healthcare.nhs.uk (S. Mark).
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Radiography
j o u r n a l h o m e p a g e : w w w . e l s e v i e r . c o m / l o c a t e / r a d i
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.radi.2022.01.002
1078-8174/© 2022 The College of Radiographers. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Radiography 28 (2022) 550e552

Table 1
Key performance data.
Month, year Total number of referrals Total number of
referrals stood down
Total number of
referrals attended
Referrals requiring
X-ray
Admissions to the local
emergency care hospital
Admissions avoided
November, 2020 1 0 1 1 1 0
December, 2020 9 0 9 9 4 5
January, 2021 10 1 9 8 6 3
February, 2021 5 0 5 4 3 2
March, 2021 10 1 9 9 5 4
April, 2021 9 0 9 9 6 3
May, 2021 8 0 8 8 2 6
June, 2021 4 0 4 4 0 4
Total 56 2 54 52 27 27
Pelvis / Hip (26)
Knee (13)
Chest (9)
Shoulder (2)
Hand / Wrist (1)
Ankle / Foot (11)
Radiographs Performed
Figure 1. Radiographs performed.
Pelvis / Hip (11)
Knee (3)
Chest (1)
Shoulder (0)
Hand / Wrist (1)
Ankle / Foot (7)
Acute Findings
Figure 2. Acute findings.
S. Mark, D. Henderson and J. Brealey Radiography 28 (2022) 550e552
551

The X-ray response team
The XRT was made possible by the innovative portable
X-ray unit supplied by Fujifilm, the FDR Xair. Prior to the FDR
Xair, portable X-ray units were large cumbersome machines
that required a power source and were logistically difficult to
transport. In contrast, the FDR Xair is a highly transportable
compact unit designed to be used outside of the hospital setting
where a power source may not be available that only weighs
3.5 kg. 3
The team consisted of a senior Radiographer, Emergency
Department (ED) Clinician and a specialist trauma/research Para-
medic with a Pre-Hospital Emergency Medicine (PHEM) consultant
providing oversight management remotely. The XRT functioned as
a flat hierarchy although legal constraints dictated that certain roles
were the responsibility of appropriately trained team members; the
Radiographer was responsible for all radiation safety and the ED
Clinician/Paramedic were responsible for the clinical assessment
and prescription of analgesics.
The team responded to category 3 and 4 calls received by the
ambulance service from private residences and care homes. Once
on scene the team worked together to assess the patient and
formulate a plan of action, these findings would then be discussed
with the oversight management to decide if medical imaging and
conveyance to hospital was required.
Challenges
The team worked closely with a Radiation Protection Advisor
(RPA) and Medical Physics Expert (MPE) who facilitated the safe
working of the equipment within the community. New local rules
were created and the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) registra-
tion for the Trust was expanded to cover plain film imaging in the
community to adhere to the Ionising Radiation Regulations (IRR)
2017.
The RPA made recommendations on reducing the risk of
damage during transportation. This included a more durable case
for the X-ray tube and shock detectors attached to the tube and
carry cases. They also recommended a longer exposure button
cable to reduce unnecessary dose to the operator. All community
locations required a risk assessment that would be performed by
the Radiographer after receiving Radiation Protection Supervisor
(RPS) training. This included creating a controlled area, ensuring
that the primary beam was directed at a solid floor or brick wall
and maintaining a clear 2 m distance around the primary beam
and patient. The MPE developed a daily QA schedule for the
equipment which included a weekly lead shielding test that
would also to be carried out in the event of a triggered shock
detector.
Pelvic images routinely require the use of a secondary radiation
grid to absorb scattered radiation however this necessitates a high
milliampere-seconds (mAs) to produce diagnostic images. The FDR
Xair does not have the capability to produce a high mAs due to its
compact size and weight; the maximum output is 90 kV (kV)
2.5 mAs. Instead, pelvic radiographs were acquired using an
average of 80 kV and 2 mA s with a virtual grid applied during post-
processing which corrected the effects of scattered radiation, this
produced diagnostic images of comparable detail and contrast to
radiographs acquired in the hospital setting.
Patient feedback
Patient feedback was gathered on a tablet computer while the
team were still on scene, this involved the patient or their carer
completing an online questionnaire. We received feedback from 35
patients with 100% of them rating the service as very good and
100% felt they were treated with respect and dignity. All patients
gave consent for their data to be included in this study.
Results
The pilot was in operation between November 2020 and June
2021 with 56 patients referred although 2 patients were deemed
unsuitable and were therefore referred back to NEAS. The average
age of the patients attended was 80 years with ages ranging from
69 to 91, 86% of these patients were assessed in their private resi-
dence with the remaining number assessed in care homes. Table 1
shows the number referrals received, how many required imaging
and the number of admissions avoided. Fig. 1 demonstrates the
number and type of radiographs performed whereas Fig. 2 dem-
onstrates how many of the images showed acute pathology. The
majority of acute findings involved fractures of the pelvis, hip and
ankle and these patients were all conveyed to hospital. Some pa-
tients were still conveyed to hospital even though the radiograph
showed no acute findings because of clinical findings such as
breathing difficulties and mobility issues.
Future recommendations
The service should be expanded to operate full time which
would require support and funding. Patient pathways should be
developed so that patients assessed by the XRT could bypass ED and
be referred directly to the appropriate service such as Orthopaedics
or Care of the Elderly (COTE).
Conclusion
Proof on concept was achieved as the team reduced conveyance
by 50%. This has cost saving implications as well as easing pressures
on NEAS and ED. Patient care and experience was greatly improved
as they were assessed in their own environment without the long
waiting times associated with emergency care. Further-more, pa-
tients who were conveyed into hospital still benefited from the
service as they received pain management on scene and most
already had a diagnosis on arrival to hospital so they could be
directed to the appropriate service thus streamlining their
pathway.
The XRT has far reaching implications that if managed correctly
could be a huge step towards modernising the NHS into a more
coherent and financially efficient service that delivers safe and
high-quality compassionate care.
Conflict of interest statement
None
Acknowledgments
This research did not receive any specific grant from funding
agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.
References
1. NHS England an NHS Improvement. Planning to safely reduce avoidable conveyance.
2019. https://www.england.nhs.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/planning-to-
safetly-reduce-avoidable-conveyance-v4.0.pdf. [Accessed 29 June 2021].
2. Barker RO, Stocker R, Russell S, Hanratty B. Future-proofing the primary care
workforce a qualitative study of home visits by emergency care practitioners in
the UK. Eur J Gen Pract 2021;27:68e76.
3. Fujifilm. Portable X-ray unit FDR Xair. 2021. https://www.fujifilm.com/uk/en/
healthcare/x-ray/portable-x-ray/fdr-xair. [Accessed 8 December 2021].
S. Mark, D. Henderson and J. Brealey Radiography 28 (2022) 550e552
552
