queueId: ingest-1781569954388-ige
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260520 우크라이나(Licarno) 23G, P1 - 이창민 팀장님/260527 1차 제출본/3.1 [Portable X-ray System] Technical Document/6. Product Verification and Validation/5. Clinical Evaluation Report/Literature/# 17.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/50b32d211d91/# 17__50b32d211d91_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: e0c379f28cc7
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 412

SOURCE_TEXT
Case Report
The Utility of a Portable X-ray System
Kazuhiko Omori, MD, PhD, Ken-ichi Muramatsu, MD, Hiroki Nagasawa, MD,
Ikuto Takeuchi, MD, Shunsuke Madokoro, MD, Kei Jitsuiki, MD, PhD,
Hiromichi Ohsaka, MD, PhD, Kouhei Ishikawa, MD, PhD, Youichi Yanagawa, MD, PhD *
Department of Acute Critical Care Medicine, Shizuoka Hospital, Juntendo University, Tokyo, Japan
A B S T R A C T
Fujifilm (Tokyo, Japan) developed a portable X-ray system called the CALNEO Xair. We herein report our
experience in using this portable X-ray system at the scene after transportation by a doctor helicopter (DH).
An explosion suddenly occurred while a 42-year-old man was handling toluene in a factory, causing his
clothes to catch on fire. When the staff of a physician-staffed helicopter (DH) equipped with a portable X-ray
system checked the man at the rendezvous point, he had second- and third-degree flame burns to > 70% of
his total body surface area. A chest X-ray obtained using the portable X-ray system showed clear lung fields.
A noninvasive carboxyhemoglobin monitor indicated a carboxyhemoglobin value of 6%. He was transferred
to a special burn center by the DH. This is the first reported case in which a portable X-ray system was used
to evaluate blast injuries in the prehospital setting. This system may be useful for performing prehospital
medical treatment for blast injury victims.
© 2019 Air Medical Journal Associates. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Blast injuries are typically categorized by the mechanism of
injury.1 Primary blast injuries occur as a result of the overpressuriza-
tion wave of the explosion and typically affect gas-filled body struc-
tures of the body (eg, the lungs, gastrointestinal tract, and middle
ear), resulting in injuries such as blast lung, tympanic membrane rup-
ture, abdominal hemorrhage, and concussion. Secondary blast inju-
ries result from flying debris propelled by the blast wind and may
affect any body part. Blunt force or penetrating injuries are possible.
Tertiary blast injuries occur when the body is accelerated by the blast
wind or pressure gradients. Any body part may be affected, and typi-
cal injuries include fracture and traumatic amputation, closed and
open brain injuries, and crush injuries. Quaternary blast injuries occur
because of other products of the explosion (eg, heat and light) and
exposure to toxins or gases. Any body part may be affected, and inju-
ries include burns, blindness, and respiratory problems induced by
the inhalation of toxic gases. Quinary blast injuries include illnesses,
injuries, and diseases resulting from postexplosion environmental
contaminants (eg, bacteria and radiation). Factors such as the type of
explosive, the distance from the explosion, and body orientation rela-
tive to the explosion influence the impact of the explosion on the
body. Radiologic studies are an essential part of the evaluation of
patients with blast injuries because of the complex, severe, and multi-
ple injuries that they may suffer.2,3
Fujifilm (Tokyo, Japan) developed a portable X-ray system called
the CALNEO Xair. The X-ray radiation machine weighs 3.5 kg. Its
dimensions are as follows: height of 144 mm, length of 148 mm, and
width of 258 mm—without the skin guard or the hand strap. The
radiation dose of a chest Xray performed with this system is
approximately 45 mGy. The system requires a special cassette and
notebook-type personal computer to operate and display X-ray
images (Fig. 1).
Our hospital is the physician-staffed helicopter (called a doctor heli-
copter [DH] in Japan) base for eastern Shizuoka Prefecture.4 We herein
report our experience using a portable X-ray system transported by a
DH, which was used for the evaluation of a patient with blast injuries in
a prehospital setting.
Case Presentation
An explosion suddenly occurred while a 42-year-old man was
handling toluene in a factory, causing his clothes to catch on fire.
Although he remained standing after the blast, his clothes caught on
fire. His colleague rescued him and extinguished the fire. The man
was the only victim. A colleague called the fire department. When
emergency medical technicians checked him, he had extensive burns;
thus, they requested the DH be dispatched, and he was transported to
a rendezvous point. When the staff of the DH equipped with a porta-
ble X-ray system checked him at the rendezvous point, his vital signs
were as follows: Glasgow Coma Scale of E4 V5 M6, systolic blood
pressure of 140/80 mm Hg, pulse rate of 80 beats/min, percutaneous
* Address for correspondence: Youichi Yanagawa, MD, PhD, 1129 Nagaoka, Izuno-
kuni City, Shizuoka, Japan 410-2295
E-mail address: yyanaga@juntendo.ac.jp (Y. Yanagawa).
1067-991X/$36.00
© 2019 Air Medical Journal Associates. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.amj.2019.02.004
Air Medical Journal 38 (2019) 212−214
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Air Medical Journal
j o u r n a l h o m e p a g e : h t t p : / / w w w . a i r m e d i c a l j o u r n a l . c o m /

oxygen of saturation of 100% under 10 L per minute of oxygen with a
reservoir mask, respiratory rate of 20 breaths/min, and body temper-
ature of 36.2°C. He had second- and third-degree flame burns to
> 70% of his total body surface area, which were contaminated with
soot (Fig. 2). His hearing was intact. A focused sonography assessment
for trauma was negative. The portable chest X-ray revealed clear lung
fields (Fig. 3). A noninvasive carboxyhemoglobin monitor (a pulse co-
oximeter) indicated a carboxyhemoglobin value of 6%. The DH staff
judged that the blast had induced an extended flame burn injury
with carboxyhemoglobinemia. He was transferred to a special burn
center by the DH.
Discussion
This is the first case in which a portable X-ray system was used
to evaluate a patient with blast injuries in a prehospital setting. An
explosion occurs when “energy is released over a sufficiently small
time and in a sufficiently small volume so as to generate a pressure
wave of finite amplitude travelling away from thesource.”5 This
pressure wave (blast wave) that caused the primary blast injury is
considered to predominantly affect gas-containing organs such as
the larynx, middle ear, bowel, and lungs. Thus, exposure to the blast
wave can cause life-threatening primary blast injury syndrome in
which lung injury is predominant. 5 A chest X-ray should be
included as a routine part of the examination of patients with blast
injury because many develop respiratory insufficiency within
24 hours, even when they show mild (or no) primary symptoms. 6
Because the portable X-ray system showed no sign of lung injury,
the patient was transported to a special burn center for treatment.
In a mass casualty event, this portable X-ray system may be useful
as a triage tool to evaluate the severity of victims’ injuries.
Figure 2. The upper body of the patient. The patient suffered second- and third-degree flame burns to > 70% of the total body surface area, which were contaminated with soot.
Figure 1. CALNEO Xair developed by Fujifilm. (Left) The system carried by a physician. (Right) The system carried in the helicopter. (1) The X-ray radiation apparatus, (2) the special
cassette, and (3) a notebook-type personal computer.
K. Omori et al. / Air Medical Journal 38 (2019) 212
−214 213

Accordingly, the algorithm for the management of blast injury vic-
tims in the prehospital setting may change in the future.
Conclusion
We reported the usefulness of a portable X-ray system transported
by a DH in the examination of a blast injury victim. This system may
be useful for performing prehospital medical treatment for blast injury
victims.
Acknowledgment
Supported by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and
Technology−Supported Program for the Strategic Research Foundation
at Private Universities, 2015-2019.
References
1. Greer N, Sayer N, Kramer M, Koeller E, Velasquez T. Prevalence and epidemiology of
combat blast injuries from the military cohort 2001-2014. VA Evidence-based Syn-
thesis Program Reports. Washington, DC: Department of Veterans Affairs; February
2016.
2. Dick EA, Ballard M, Alwan-Walker H, et al. Bomb blast imaging: bringing order to
chaos. Clin Radiol. 2018;73:509–516.
3. Hare SS, Goddard I, Ward P, Naraghi A, Dick EA. The radiological management of
bomb blast injury. Clin Radiol. 2007;62:1–9.
4. Omori K, Ohsaka H, Ishikawa K, et al. Introduction of a physician-staffed helicopter
emergency medical service in eastern Shizuoka prefecture in Japan. Air Med J.
2014;33:292–295.
5. Scott TE, Kirkman E, Haque M, Gibb IE, Mahoney P, Hardman JG. Primary blast lung
injury - a review. Br J Anaesth. 2017;118:311–316.
6. Brismar B, Bergenwald L. The terrorist bomb explosion in Bologna, Italy,
1980: an analysis of the effects and injuries sustained. J Trauma. 1982;22:
216–220.
Figure 3. The chest X-ray. The X-ray was negative.
214 K. Omori et al. / Air Medical Journal 38 (2019) 212
−214
