queueId: ingest-1781569954403-sc8
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260520 우크라이나(Licarno) 23G, P1 - 이창민 팀장님/260527 1차 제출본/3.1 [Portable X-ray System] Technical Document/6. Product Verification and Validation/5. Clinical Evaluation Report/Literature/EC Radiation Protection 180.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/9c77de5c9852/EC Radiation Protection 180__9c77de5c9852_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 7f31964c1cc5
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 419

SOURCE_TEXT
EUROPEAN COMMISSION
RADIATION PROTECTION N° 180
Medical Radiation Exposure of the
European Population
Part 1/2
Directorate-General for Energy
Directorate D — Nuclear Safety & Fuel Cycle
Unit D3 — Radiation Protection
2014

2
This report was prepared under contract ENER/2010/NUCL/SI2.581237 for the European
Commission. The views expressed have not been adopted or in any way approved by the
Commission and should not be relied upon as a statement of the Commission's views. The
European Commission does not guarantee the accuracy of the data included in this report,
not does it accept responsibility for any use made thereof.
Europe Direct is a service to help you find answers
to your questions about the European Union
Freephone number (*):
00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11
(*) Certain mobile telephone operators do not allow access to 00 800 numbers or these calls may be
billed.
More information on the European Union is available on the Internet (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2014
ISBN xxx
doi: xxx
© European Union, 2014
Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Printed in Luxembourg

3
FOREWORD
Luxembourg, December 2014
Ionising radiation has been used in medicine since the discovery of radioactivity and x-rays
more than a hundred years ago and is now firmly established as an essential tool for medical
diagnosis and therapy. Medical x-ray and nuclear imaging has experienced marked increase
in the past decade or so when new technologies, such as computed tomography and
positron emission tomography, have become widespread. These procedures – when
medically indicated and properly conducted – provide great benefits to patients; however the
associated radiation exposures have to be monitored and controlled in the view of their
potential to cause harmful health effects.
In 2008 the European Commission published "Radiation Protection 154: European Guidance
on Estimating Population Doses from Medical X-Ray Procedures" (RP 154). The 2008
publication also contained the results of the national medical exposure studies in ten
European countries. However, full evaluation of the radiation exposure from medical
diagnostic procedures in Europe has not been previously carried out. The present report is
therefore intended to fill this gap.
This report provides comprehensive information on 36 European countries regarding
frequencies and radiation dose of x-ray and nuclear medicine radiodiagnostic procedures.
The information presented in the report is based on national surveys carried out between
2007 and 2010. The final results are presented as annual effective dose per caput in the
participating European countries, which has been calculated to be about 1.1 mSv for all
medical imaging. To put this value in perspective, it could be noted that it is about half the
recent value of per caput medical radiation dose estimated in Australia and about one-third of
the corresponding value in the USA. The report also shows that the radiation dose from
medical imaging varies hugely among the different European countries and that there is a
trend upwards in many countries; further analyses on national level are needed to better
quantify and understand these differences and trends.
In terms of the significance of the different groups of medical imaging procedures, the report
demonstrates that computed tomography alone is responsible for more than half of the
medical radiation exposure of the European population in 2007-2010. Other x-ray procedures
are responsible for most of the remaining population exposure, and nuclear medicine
contributes with only about five percent.
The work undertaken to produce this report has provided several important additional
benefits. Most importantly, the project activities have galvanised national efforts to develop
and carry out population dose studies in the European countries, including in countries with
limited previous experience. The report identified a “Top 7” approach to nuclear medicine
procedures, which is complementary to the RP 154's "Top 20" for x-ray examinations and
should be used by European countries in future dose surveys. Finally, a summary of the
national diagnostic reference levels (DRLs) is published as Part 2 of this report (only
available online).

4
I believe that the data and the results included in this report will serve as an important
reference for authorities, scientists and professionals dealing with radiation protection of
patients. High-quality and up-to-date information provides the basis of sound policies, and
maintaining and updating our knowledge of the medical radiation exposure of the population
should be of utmost importance. This is emphasized in the recently updated European Basic
Safety Standards (Council Directive 2013/59/Euratom) requiring, among others, taking into
account the age and gender distribution of the exposed patient population.
The publication of this report in the Commission's Radiation Protection series of publications
has been recommended by the Group of Experts established under Article 31 of the Euratom
Treaty.
Ivo Alehno
Head of Radiation Protection Unit

5
TABLE OF CONTENTS
FOREWORD ............................................................................................. 3
TABLE OF CONTENTS ............................................................................... 5
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS ........................................................................ 7
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ........................................................................... 11
1 INTRODUCTION ............................................................................... 15
2 PURPOSE AND SCOPE ...................................................................... 17
3 METHODOLOGY AND CONCEPTS ....................................................... 19
3.1 PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND METHODS OF DATA COLLECTION ........................ 19
3.2 MAIN CONCEPTS ............................................................................. 21
4 RADIOLOGY IN EUROPE - GENERAL DATA........................................ 23
4.1 RADIATION PRACTICES AND NATIONAL HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS ........................ 23
4.2 REGULATORY FRAMEWORKS FOR ESTIMATION OF POPULATION DOSES ................ 28
4.2.1 Availability of regulations and/or recommendations ..................... 28
4.2.2 Organizations responsible for frequency collection and population
dose estimation ...................................................................... 29
4.2.3 Periodicity of frequency collection and population dose estimation . 30
4.2.4 Reporting to UNSCEAR ............................................................ 31
4.3 NATIONAL CODING SYSTEMS ............................................................... 31
4.3.1 Existence of national systems for coding the examinations ........... 31
4.3.2 Number of codes .................................................................... 32
4.3.3 Correspondence with RP154 categories ...................................... 32
4.4 AVAILABILITY OF FREQUENCY AND POPULATION DOSE DATA ........................... 33
5 EUROPEAN POPULATION DOSE FROM MEDICAL IMAGING ............... 35
5.1 X-RAY PROCEDURES ......................................................................... 35
5.1.1 Frequencies ........................................................................... 35
5.1.2 Effective doses ....................................................................... 51
5.2 NUCLEAR MEDICINE PROCEDURES ......................................................... 67
5.2.1 Frequencies ........................................................................... 67
5.2.2 Effective doses ....................................................................... 73
5.3 COLLECTIVE EFFECTIVE DOSE FOR ALL MEDICAL IMAGING .............................. 84
6 ACCURACY OF EUROPEAN POPULATION DOSE ESTIMATION ............ 89
6.1 X-RAY PROCEDURES ......................................................................... 89
6.1.1 Uncertainties in frequency estimations ....................................... 89
6.1.2 Uncertainties in estimating typical effective dose ......................... 89
6.1.3 Uncertainties of population dose estimations .............................. 92
6.2 NUCLEAR MEDICINE PROCEDURES ......................................................... 93
7 ESTIMATIONS OF AGE AND SEX DISTRIBUTIONS ............................ 95
7.1 AGE AND SEX DISTRIBUTIONS FOR X-RAYS EXAMINATIONS ............................ 95
7.2 AGE AND SEX DISTRIBUTIONS FOR NUCLEAR MEDICINE PROCEDURES ................ 99
8 REFERENCES .................................................................................. 101
9 ANNEXES (ONLY AVAILABLE ONLINE) ........................................... 103

7
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACHI Australian Classfication of Health Insurance
AF Adult Female
AM Adult Male
AP Anterior Posterior
APIC Portuguese Association of Cardiovascular Intervention
ARPANSA Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency
β-CIT β-carboxymethyoxy-3-β-(4-iodophenyl) tropane
CA Coronary Angiography
CBCT Cone Beam Computed Tomography
CC Conversion Coefficient
CIHI Croatian Institute for Health Insurance
CRP Centre of Radiation Protection (Moldova)
CT Computed Tomography
CT-EXPO Name of an organ dose calculation software package (Hannover,
Germany)
DAP Dose Area Product
DDM1 Dose Datamed 1, Acronym for the earlier EC project on European
population doses
DDM2 Dose Datamed2, Acronym of the present EC project “Study on European
Population Doses from Medical Exposure”
DDMedDB Dose Datamed Database
DLP Dose Length Product
DMSA Dimercaptosuccinic acid
DRL Diagnostic Reference Level
DTPA Diethylene triamine pentaacetic acid
EC European Commission
ECD Ethyl Cysteinate Dimer
EFTA European Free Trade Area
ESAK Entrance Surface Air Kerma
ESD Entrance Surface Dose
EUROSTAT Directorate General of the European Commission with the mission to
provide statistical information
EU European Union
FAQ Frequently Asked Questions
FDG Fluorodeoxyglucose
GAEC Greek Atomic Energy Commission

8
HCL1 Health Care Level 1
HPA Health Protection Agency (UK)
IAEA International Atomic Energy Agency
ICD International Classification of Diseases
ICRP International Commission on Radiological Protection
ICRU International Commission on Radiation Units and Measurements
IHIS Institute of Health Information and Statistics (Czech Republic)
InVS National Institute for Public Health Surveillance (France)
IRSA Icelandic Radiation Safety Authority
IVU Intravenous Urography
IR Interventional Radiology
IRSN Institute for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety (France)
KAP Kerma Area Product
LAT Lateral
LSJ Lumbo-Sacral Joint
MDCT Multidetector Computed Tomography
MED Medical Exposure Directive
MGD Mean Glandular Dose
MIBI Methoxyisobutylisonitrile
MIRD Medical Internal Radiation Dosimetry
MRI Magnetic Resonance Imaging
MUGA Multi Gated Acquisition Scan
NCPH National Centre of Public Health (Moldova)
NCRP National Council on Radiation Protection
NCRPHC National Centre for Radiation Protection in Health Care (Poland)
NCRRP National Centre of Radiobiology and Radiation Protection (Bulgaria)
NHF National Health Fund (Poland)
NM Nuclear Medicine
NRPA Norwegian Radiation Protection Authority
NRPB National Radiological Protection Board (UK)
PA Posterior Anterior
PACS Picture Achieving and Communication System
PCI Percutaneous Coronary Intervention
PCXMC Name of an organ dose calculation software package (Ref.)
PEDDOSE European project "Dosimetry and Health Effects of Diagnostic Applications
of Radiopharmaceuticals with particular emphasis on the use in children
and adolescents" under FP7
PET-CT Positron Emission Tomography –CT

9
PTCA Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty
QC Quality Control
RIS Radiological Information Systems
RP154 EC Publication "Radiation Protection 154: European Guidance on
Estimating Population Doses from Medical X-Ray Procedure
RPD Radiation Protection Dosimetry
SPECT-CT Single Positron Emission –CT
STUK Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority (Finland)
TLD Thermoluminescent Dosimetry
UK United Kingdom
UNSCEAR United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation
US Ultrasound
USA United States of America
WHO World Health Organization
WP Work Package

11
Executive summary
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Recent increases in medical imaging, particularly with respect to computed tomography (CT)
and other high dose procedures, have led to significant increase of individual patient doses
and of the collective dose to the population as a whole. Regular assessments of the
magnitude and distribution of this large and increasing source of population exposure is
therefore of high importance. The objective of the present Dose Datamed 2 (DDM2) project
has been to collect available data on the doses from radiodiagnostic procedures (x-ray
procedures and nuclear medicine) in the European Union and to facilitate the further
implementation of Radiation Protection 154 (European Guidance on Estimating Population
Doses from Medical X-Ray Procedures, published by the European Commission in 2008 (EC
2008)). An estimate of the collective effective doses to patients from radiodiagnostic
procedures for the European Union as a whole has not been previously carried out. In the
previous Dose Datamed1 (DDM1) project, collective effective doses was also surveyed but
only for 10 European countries; therefore, the present survey for all European countries
was much more comprehensive, while it has also been of interest to identify any trends in the
collective effective doses in the 10 countries included in both projects.
The study was conducted by web-based questionnaires, with specific Excel-forms for
detailed data collection, down- and uploadable at the project website. The questionnaires
were distributed to all EU member states, EFTA countries and some other European
countries. Frequency and effective dose data were collected for the “Top 20 procedures”
(Top 20 approach) defined in RP 154 in all countries, while comprehensive data for all x-ray
procedures and nuclear medicine (NM) procedures were collected in a few countries. Both
sets of data were used to estimate the overall frequencies and collective effective doses to
the European population. The data were stored in an established database which will enable
future follow-up of the trends in European population dose. Data collection was backed by
providing training and advice to the countries through the project organization, as well as
providing expert verification and analysis of the received data. Conducting the
questionnaires, organizing the training course and all other actions within this project have
had a tremendous impact on the development of population dose estimations, including in
those European countries that had little or no previous experience of this topic.
As a supplementary effort, a review of the European Diagnostic Reference Levels (DRLs) of
patient doses was carried out and published as Part 2 of this report. In addition, through the
general questionnaires, the implementation of the population dose estimation requirements
of the MED directive and some supporting statistical data on the radiation practices and
national healthcare systems were reviewed.
The general questionnaire revealed that except for a few countries, regulations and/or
recommendations for population dose evaluation existed. The questionnaire also provided
information on the organizations responsible for frequency and dose collections and for
carrying out population dose estimations, as well as several details of their practical
implementation (e.g. periodicity and national coding systems available for classification of x-
ray and NM procedures).
In this study, for the determination of the collective effective dose, the general population has
been used instead of the patient population, and no distinction has been made between adult
and paediatric populations. This pragmatic approach is justified for several reasons related to
the availability and comparability of the data and the deficiency of effective dose as a risk
quantity for patient population.
The results of the data collection and analysis lead to the following conclusions on the overall
total collective effective doses in European countries:

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
12
For x-ray procedures :
Group 1: EU-countries and EFTA countries (except Liechtenstein) (31 countries, see Table
3.1): 547500 manSv, resulting in a mean effective dose of 1,06 mSv per caput.
Group 2: All European countries included in this survey (36 countries, see Table 3.1)
605000 manSv, resulting in a mean effective dose of 1,05 mSv per caput.
For NM procedures :
Group 1: 30700 manSv, resulting in a mean effective dose of 0,06 mSv per caput.
Group 2: 31100 manSv, resulting in a mean effective dose of 0,05 mSv per caput.
The overall per caput effective dose for all medical imaging (X-rays + NM procedures) is
therefore 1,12 mSv (Group 1) and 1,10 mSv (Group 2). The contribution to the total
population dose of CT, plain radiography, fluoroscopy, interventional radiology and NM
procedures is respectively about 57 %, 17%, 12 %, 9 %, 5 % (Group 1) and 52 %, 22 %, 13
%, 8 %, 5 % (Group 2).
The overall per caput effective doses are about half the recent value of per caput effective
doses estimated in Australia (Wallace 2012) and about one-third of the corresponding value
in the USA (NCRP 2009). Comparing the results with an earlier estimation of population dose
in Europe, in the DDM1 countries, there seems to be a trend upwards; however, because for
some of the DDM1 countries the new data are based on Top 20 estimations only, no strict

conclusion about the percentage increase can be made. While the average dose in Europe
turned out to be relatively low, there are high variations in the results between countries. The
variation originates from many different sources and can not be explained without further
studies on national level. It is important to investigate and ensure a proper balance between
local imaging resources and optimal radiation protection. The distribution of the doses
between various groups of examinations and other detailed results of this study can be
exploited by comparing the practices and identifying the cases requiring highest attention.
While there are relatively large uncertainties involved in the estimation of population dose for
different procedures and in different countries, it was estimated that the overall uncertainty of
the European population dose can still be reasonable, less than 10 %.
The Top 20 approach is still considered to yield a good approximation of the population dose,
in particular if this set of examinations is supplemented by a few extra types of examinations
known or anticipated to also yield a significant contribution to the population dose. An
approach similar to Top 20, called “Top7”, is proposed for NM procedures in order to cover a
good percentage of the overall population dose from all NM procedures. A slight revision of
the European guidance (RP 154) could be recommended in order to take into account the
experiences of this project and to supplement the existing guidance with similar advice for
NM procedures.
The database developed in the DDM2 project contains all the data collected in the project.
The database is designed to support several data sets from future studies. This will allow a
future project to compare the collected data and calculate trends in Europe. Even though
there were not enough resources to establish a system with a sophisticated user interface,
the system can handle data from several years/studies. Some suggestions for the future
development and use of the database are discussed in Annex 11 to the report.
The project also included considerations of the importance of the new ICRP tissue weighting
factors for the population dose estimations. It is concluded that the most recent revision in
tissue weighting factors from ICRP 60 (E60) to ICRP 103 (E103) will have a significant
impact (by more than a few tens of percent) for only a few types of x-ray examination and
only a minor impact on the mean effective dose estimation in total.
The importance of age/and sex distributions was also reviewed. Based on EUROSTAT data,
the overall age distribution of the EU 27 countries shows no significant differences between

13
Executive summary
the data from 2005 and 2010. Comparisons of the average data on age/sex distribution for
the five DDM 1 countries and four DDM 2 countries, for specific x-ray examinations, indicated
that the distributions are sufficiently similar to conclude that the usage of the European
average distributions (published in DDM1 project) is still reasonable when specific national
data on age and sex distribution per examination are not available. New data on age and sex
distributions for the Top 20 examinations are provided in this report that can be used by any
European country, in the absence of more reliable national data. In nuclear medicine, typical
paediatric procedures are different from adult procedures: about three quarters of micturating
cystography are performed on children.
This report includes a large number of annexes providing further information in support of
European population dose estimation: details of the results of the European questionnaires,
a collection of experiences on the use of the European guidelines (RP 154, EC 2008),
additional recommendations on population dose estimations to support the use of RP 154,
information on the population dose database established in the project, and the effect of
tissue weighting factors on the estimation of effective dose for x-ray procedures.

15
Introduction
1 INTRODUCTION
At the end of 2004 the European Commission (EC) launched a project to provide information
and develop guidance on the implementation of Article 12 of the Medical Exposure Directive
in Member States with regard to medical radiodiagnostic procedures. This “DOSE
DATAMED” study (referred to hereinafter as DDM1) covered ten European countries with
national experiences in conducting surveys of dose distributions from medical
radiodiagnostic procedures. The guidance developed under the DDM1 project, together with
best available survey data from these ten countries around the year 2002, was published by
the European Commission as Radiation Protection 154 - European Guidance on Estimating
Population Dose from Medical X-ray Procedures (RP154) (EC 2008).
At the beginning of 2011 EC launched a new project, a follow-up called “Study on European
Population Doses From Medical Exposure”, or Dose Datamed 2 (DDM2). Reference was
made to the rapid technological development during the last decade and the need for
updated comparable data about the doses from medical exposure procedures, in x-ray
diagnostics, interventional radiology and nuclear medicine (NM), in the European Union
Member States. The availability of such data will facilitate the implementation of radiation
protection requirements in the EU Member States as well as future decision-making on these
matters on national and EU level. An estimate of the doses to patients from radiodiagnostic
procedures for the European Union as a whole had not been carried out previously, and it
has also been of interest to identify any trends in the doses.

17
Purpose and scope
2 PURPOSE AND SCOPE
The objective of the DDM2 project has been to collect available data on the doses from
radiodiagnostic procedures (x-ray procedures and nuclear medicine) in the European Union
and to facilitate the further implementation of Radiation Protection 154. European Guidance
on Estimating Population Doses from Medical X-Ray Procedure, published by the European
Commission in 2008.
To achieve the objectives, the following actions have been undertaken:
 Providing advice and collecting feedback from the application of guidance RP 154;
 Providing estimates of population doses in EU Member States and the population
dose in European Union as a whole;
 Providing a database for population dose information which will enable continuous
collection and follow-up of European population doses.
As a supplementary aim, due to their close relationship with population dose evaluations,
Diagnostic Reference Levels (DRL) for several x-ray and NM procedures were collected in
the context of the project questionnaires. The comparison of the DRLs with the data from
mean effective doses used in population dose calculations can provide helpful information for
the studies of the appropriateness of the DRLs. The results of the DRL survey are presented
in Project Report Part 2.

19
Methodology and concepts
3 METHODOLOGY AND CONCEPTS
3.1 Project organization and methods of data collection
The project consortium has included partners from both the previous DDM1 project and from
those countries that were not involved in the earlier project but had recent experiences in the
implementation of report RP154. Furthermore, the project consortium has been supported by
a panel of scientific experts, with participants from several other DDM1 countries and the
relevant international bodies, and by an observer representing WHO and UNSCEAR. Finally,
the collection of information and data has been ensured through national contact persons
established by contacting the authorities and other relevant organizations in all European
countries.
The project was divided into six separate work packages (WP):
• WP 1: Management and coordination
• WP 2: General questionnaire and database
• WP 3: Population dose for countries with national surveys
• WP 4: Population dose for countries without national surveys
• WP 5: Population dose in European Union as the whole
• WP 6: European Workshop
The first step was the circulation of a general questionnaire (Annex 1) to the EU member
States and affiliated states, altogether 40 countries. The purpose of the general
questionnaire was to survey the national regulatory frameworks and the status of
implementation of the requirements for medical dose surveys and population dose
estimations. The questionnaire was based on the experiences and information collected
within the DDM1 project. The questionnaire was distributed to the national contact persons;
the list of national contact persons was subsequently updated through the implementation of
WP2, and the final list is available in Annex 1. The final list consists of contact data for 36
countries that supplied most of the requested data; this includes the 28 EU Member States, 3
EFTA and 5 other European countries. All 36 countries, their country symbols and population
numbers as used in this report are shown in Table 3.1. Besides these countries, two
countries, Belarus (BY) and Bosnia and Herzegovina (BA) supplied some of the general
data, and these countries are therefore included in some tables and graphs.
The results of the general questionnaire were used to plan the more detailed surveys in WP3
and WP4. Two separate questionnaires (countries “with and without national surveys”) were
originally planned, but this approach turned out to be unfeasible and was replaced by a joint
questionnaire to all countries. The joint questionnaire was planned in a way that all countries
were able to submit their available data, but also consider and be aware of the different
options according to the existing guidance of RP 154.
The practical implementation of the joint questionnaire and data collection was carried out
using state-of-the-art internet-based techniques. This has provided a remote online access to
the platform from all participating parties. A significant number of general questions included
in the questionnaire, e.g. statistics on health providers and professionals and a review of
Diagnostic Reference Levels (DRLs), were directly implemented in the web-based system
allowing easy response, with a possibility to return to the questionnaire whenever needed
before the final submission. For practical reasons, however, the actual dose survey for
population dose estimations (i.e., the frequency and dose data) was implemented through
specific EXCEL files. Templates of those EXCEL spreadsheets have been integrated into the

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
20
online system for download and the completed files have been collected there as well within
an integrated upload feature.
Table 3.1. Country names, symbols and population numbers.
For the purpose of systematic evaluation of the results and to enable a continuous follow-up
and update of population dose in Europe and the trends in their development, a database for
population doses was established. This database is implemented using standard
Country name Country
symbol
(Eurostat)
Population,
millions
Group 1
countries
(31)
Group 2
countries
(=all countries)
(36)
Austria AT 8,40 x x
Belgium BE 10,87 x x
Bulgaria BG 7,54 x x
Cyprus CY 0,84 x x
Czech Republic CZ 10,50 x x
Germany DE 81,80 x x
Denmark DK 5,56 x x
Estonia EE 1,32 x x
Greece EL 10,96 x x
Spain ES 47,02 x x
Finland FI 5,33 x x
France FR 63,70 x x
Croatia HR 4,29 x x
Hungary HU 10,01 x x
Ireland IE 3,45 x x
Italy IT 60,63 x x
Lithuania LT 3,25 x x
Luxembourg LU 0,47 x x
Latvia LV 2,07 x x
Malta MT 0,41 x x
The Netherlands NL 16,49 x x
Poland PL 38,14 x x
Portugal PT 10,56 x x
Romania RO 21,00 x x
Sweden SE 9,20 x x
Slovenia SI 2,05 x x
Slovakia SK 5,44 x x
United Kingdom UK 61,40 x x
Switzerland CH 7,70 x x
Iceland IS 0,32 x x
Norway NO 4,74 x x
Moldova MD 3,57 x
Montenegro ME 0,67 x
Former Yugoslavian Republic Of Macedonia MK 2,03 x
Serbia RS 7,50 x
Ukraine UA 45,90 x
EU Member States (28)
EFTA countries (3)
Other European countries (5)

21
Methodology and concepts
technologies that enable versatile use of the database and the possibility of continued
updates of the EU Member States and other European countries. Dedicated software
components have been developed to import the data provided into the database (online
questionnaire and Excel data) in a structured way. The data within the database are now
accessible in different views, for the analysis needed. These views on the data can be
exported to Excel files at any time to support the analysis. Selected views are available on
the project website (see Annex 11).
To ensure a successful data collection and to reduce the uncertainties, five European
countries were selected as “test countries”. The selection was based on the information
received from the first general questionnaire and aimed at ensuring representative
information for different health care and reimbursement systems/level of technical
development in radiology and other factors. This arrangement was also used to contribute to
the testing of the guidelines (RP 154) and identify any deficiencies and needs for amendment
or further development.
A special two-day training course was held in Sofia, Bulgaria, to give practical information
and advice to the test countries (contact persons or persons responsible for organizing the
national surveys for population dose estimations) and also to the representatives of some
other countries willing to participate. The training course included both lectures and practical
demonstrations or exercises, and resulted in preparing a detailed plan for the implementation
of the data collection in each test country. Further, individual advisors for each test country
were nominated from the project staff (partners or panel of experts) to give additional advice
and support in organizing the national survey for population dose estimation and on the
analysis and reporting of the results.
The results of data collection, the population dose estimations, the test implementation of the
European Guidance (RP 154) with the proposed modifications or amendments, and the
proposed database and follow-up of population doses were presented to open discussion at
a European Workshop. The purpose of this workshop was to provide information on the
results and gain extensive feedback on the European Guidance and follow-up schemes, in
order to finalize the report to the EC. The purpose was also to encourage all countries to
establish and maintain continuous population dose estimations in accordance with EC
directive requirements. The workshop attracted 135 participants from 33 countries including
Australia (Australian Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency, ARPANSA) and the
USA (National Council on Radiation Protection, NCRP). The participants represented
radiological practitioners, competent authorities, national organizations responsible for
collecting health care statistical information and other stakeholders. Keynote presentations
were given by speakers from the project staff (consortium, the Panel of Scientific Experts and
the UNSCEAR observer).
3.2 Main concepts
For the purpose of this report, the following definitions have been used:
 TOP20 (EC 2008): The 20 types of examinations or procedures that are amongst the
highest contributors to the collective effective dose. Together these ‘Top 20 Exams’
contribute between 50-70% to the total frequency and between 70-90% of the total
collective effective dose from all medical x-ray procedures (excluding dental).
 Radiodiagnostic (MED): pertaining to diagnostic nuclear medicine, medical diagnostic
radiology, and dental radiology.
 Radiological examination: x-ray examination/procedure or NM procedure.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
22
 x-ray examination: x-ray examinations or interventional procedure defined as one or a
series of x-ray exposures of one anatomical region/organ/organ system, using a
single imaging modality (i.e. radiography/fluoroscopy or CT), needed to answer a
specific diagnostic problem or clinical question, during one visit to the radiology
department, hospital or clinic (EC 2008).
 NM procedure: The use of very small amounts of radioactive materials (called
radiopharmaceuticals or radiotracers) to evaluate molecular, metabolic, physiologic
and pathologic conditions of the body for the purposes of diagnosis (Society of
Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging).
 Population dose: the collective effective dose to the total population caused by
radiological imaging and procedures (x-ray procedures and nuclear medicine
procedures). No distinction has been made between adult and paediatric populations.
Dose delivered in radiotherapy, including therapeutic use of nuclear medicine, is not
included in the estimation.
In principle, the collective effective dose can also be determined for given groups of
population, e.g. for paediatric population, and also for the patient population. In this study,
however, general population is used instead of patient population, and no distinction is made
between adult and paediatric populations as shown by the above definition of population
dose. This pragmatic approach is justified for several reasons: first, the data which most of
the countries could provide did not distinguish between the frequency of procedures and the
number of patients (i.e. there was no information on how many of the examinations had been
carried out on the same patient), and mostly included the frequency of procedures without
age or sex distributions. Some countries could provide only data concerning adults and some
even had difficulties providing data that was needed in the TOP20 method. Therefore, the
estimation of the population dose had to be based on the data reasonably available from the

countries. Second, the approach chosen is the one generally used for population dose
estimation, so the results of this study are comparable to the published estimations from
some other countries outside Europe. Third, the estimation of population dose, based on
effective dose, to the patient populations suffers from the fact that the effective dose is not
recommended for assessing the radiation risk of patient populations, because the age
distributions for workers and the general population (for which the effective dose is derived)
can be quite different from the overall age distribution for the patients undergoing medical
procedures using ionizing radiation (ICRP 2007).

Radiology in europe - general data
23
4 RADIOLOGY IN EUROPE - GENERAL DATA
As background information, for the purpose of analyzing the differences between the
population dose estimates in various countries, a number of selected statistical data on
radiology was collected. This data could be used, for example, to study the correlation
between the examination frequencies or population doses and the proportion of public versus
private health care units providing radiological services.
In this chapter, the results of the general questions are summarized. The list of countries,
country codes as used in this report and the numbers of populations are given in Table 3.1
(Section 3.1). The detailed results of the first general questionnaire on the availability of
frequency and population dose data have been summarized in Annex 7.
4.1 Radiation practices and national healthcare systems
The structure of healthcare varies greatly from country to country as can be seen from the
distribution of the number of different healthcare providers, Fig. 4.1 and Table 4.1 (Annex 4).
In particular, there is a high variation in the relative proportion of state (governmental)
hospitals and private hospitals: In some large countries, nearly half or more than a half, of
the hospitals are private, while in most of the countries the hospitals are mainly state owned.
However, it should also be noted that even though the numbers of public and private
hospitals could be equal, the private hospitals are generally much smaller than the public
hospitals and, therefore, only a small fraction of all x-ray examinations may be carried out in
private hospitals and clinics.
Figure 4.1. Numbers of state and private hospitals and private radiological institutes in the
European countries, per million of population. State and private hospitals are health care units
which provide radiological services besides other health care services. State hospitals include
university hospitals. Private radiological institutes are focused on providing radiological
services. In case of no number, no information from the country has been available.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Number/million of population
State hospitals TOTAL Private hospitals Private radiology institutes

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
24
Figure 4.2. Numbers of specific health care professionals, per million of population. In case of
no number, no information from the country has been available
There is also a high variation in the number of the key professional groups of physicians
(Figure 4.2 and Table 4.3 (Annex 4).
Figure 4.3. Number of specific imaging equipment per million of population in European
countries. Countries with no numbers did not reply to the questionnaire.
Figure. 4.4. Number of PET-CT and SPECT-CT equipment per million of population in European
countries (blue) and the percentage (per cent/10) of their use for real CT (red). Countries with
no numbers either had no equipment (e.g. IS) or did not reply to the questionnaire.
Figure 4.3 and Figure 4.4 present the number of selected groups of imaging equipment in the
European countries. In Figure 4.4, it has also been indicated how many (in per cent/10) of
0
50
100
150
200
250
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Number/ Million of population
Radiologists Nuclear medicine physicians Cardiologists
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Number of eqyuipment/
Million of population
CT scanners Mammography systems Angiography
0
5
10
15
20
25
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Number/ Million of population (blue)
and per cent/10 used for real CT (red)
PET-CT & SPECT-CT Fraction used for real CT (per cent/10)

Radiology in europe - general data
25
the CT scanners of the hybrid systems are used for real diagnostic CT (not only to determine
the attenuation correction).
There is a considerable variation in the numbers of equipment and the numbers are not
predictable on the basis of the size of the country. For example, the number of CT scanners
per million of population is very high in small countries like Iceland, Norway and Switzerland,
while it is considerably lower in some large countries like UK and France.
PET-CT and SPECT-CT hybrid systems are not yet very common in several European
countries, and in some countries, the first hybrid systems have just recently been introduced.
For these systems, on the average 32 % of the CT scanners are used for diagnostic CT,
while there are high variations from country to country: in France, all CT scanners of the
hybrid systems are used only for attenuation correction, while in Italy all are also used for
diagnostic purposes. More than half the countries reported that the use of PET-CT for
oncological imaging has increased and is considered to be good practice in this application
(Figure 4.5) while some countries reported this to be only for certain indications.
Figure 4.5 Increase in the use of PET-CT and its importance in oncological imaging in
European countries.
The questionnaire to the European countries also addressed the fact that the lack of imaging
equipment or alternative imaging modalities like MRI, or the lack of access to these
modalities, might lead to a choice of the imaging modality and examination which does not
correspond to the existing referral criteria or good practices defined by the professional
societies. The results (Fig. 4.6) indicate that about one-third of the countries consider this to
be possible. However, there are different views on this issue. For example, some studies of
justification have revealed that the optimum method has not always been selected due to
non-availability of MRI scanners (Oikarinen et al. 2009, Clarke et al. 2001). However, it has
also been noted that there can be long waiting times for MRI and urgent investigations have
to be done as soon as possible and, therefore, the use of CT instead of MRI can be
considered justified if the latter is not available in time.
Yes; 51,2
No; 12,2
Not
known;
12,2
No reply;
24,4

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
26
Figure 4.6. The replies of the European countries to the question “Does limited access to a
given imaging modality affect the choice of the modality?”
There are also great differences in the national reimbursement and payment systems for
radiological services in the European countries. A reimbursement has the meaning of a
repayment for expense or loss incurred, and is given to a hospital, while the practitioners
can be paid per procedure for a service. As can be seen from Figure 4.7 and Figure 4.8, in
about half the countries hospitals are reimbursed for their radiological services and in most
cases the reimbursement is 100 % of the cost. In about one third of the countries there is an
annual upper limit to the reimbursement. The reimbursement is usually associated with the
national coding of examinations, and might cover only part of the codes. About 17 % of the
countries believe that this reimbursement system can affect the frequency of examinations
(Figure 4.9).
In about 17 % of the countries, the practitioners get a payment per procedure, or in addition
to a fixed salary, receive an additional payment depending on the number of procedures. For
CT procedures, this is true only in a few countries (Bulgaria, former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, Netherlands and Switzerland), . However, for IR procedures, doctors are paid
per procedure in several countries (Figure 4.10). About one- third of the countries believe
that this payment system can affect the frequency of examinations, i.e. the number of
examinations can increase because some examinations might not be well justified but
carried out only due to the doctor’s desire to earn more money (Figure 4.11).
As for the costs to the patients, in most countries there are varying systems of health
insurance, both public and private insurances, which cover all costs or a given fraction of the
costs of an examination to the patient. These systems can also mean that the reimbursement
to the hospital or the payment to the practitioner is not relevant.
Yes; 36,6
No;
12,2
Unknown;
29,3
No reply;
22,0

Radiology in europe - general data
27
Figure 4.7. The reimbursement system for the radiological services in the European countries.
Figure 4.8. The percentage of the reimbursement of the total costs.
Figure 4.9. The replies of the European countries to the question “Does the reimbursement
system affect the frequency of examinations?”
0,0
10,0
20,0
30,0
40,0
50,0
60,0
Hospital reimpursed for
each procedure
Practitioner paid for each
proceudre
Annual upper limit for
reimbursement to hospital
% of the replies
 Yes
No
No reply
100
%
8075 70 60 50 40
5
0
No
reply
Yes; 17
No; 7
Un-
known;
7
No
reply;
10

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
28
Figure 4.10. Percentage of doctors who are paid (not reimbursed) per procedure in IR
procedures
Figure 4.11. The replies of the European countries to the question “Does the payment system
affect the frequency of examinations?”
4.2 Regulatory frameworks for estimation of population doses
4.2.1 Availability of regulations and/or recommendations
The availability of regulations and/or recommendations on the collection of examination
frequencies and making population dose estimations, and on organizations assigned for this
purpose, is summarized in
Table 4.1, based on the results of the first DDM2 questionnaire (carried out in spring 2011).
Concerning the frequency collection only 2 countries (MT and ES) among the 38 who
provided data did not have regulations and/or recommendations. It is worth stressing that
data on frequencies could be collected (partly by the impact of DDM2) despite the lack of
national regulations and/or recommendations. Concerning population dose estimation,
regulations and/or recommendations were lacking only in two countries (MT and NO) and
were being prepared in two others (CZ and MD).
Regulations and/or recommendations existed in 28 countries concerning the organization for
frequency collection and in 25 countries concerning the organization for making population
0
20
40
60
80
100
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Percentage %
Percentage of doctors paid per procedure in IR, state hospitals
Percentage of doctors paid per procedure in IR, private hospitals
yes
27 %
no
20 %
unknown
29 %
no reply
24 %

Radiology in europe - general data
29
dose estimation. During the time of the questionnaires, they were being prepared in two
countries: MD and RS (RS completed 2012).
4.2.2 Organizations responsible for frequency collection and population
dose estimation
The organizations responsible for frequency collection and population dose estimation are
summarized in Annex 4.
In two countries among the 38 that provided data no organization existed with the
responsibility to collect the frequencies of examinations or to perform population dose
assessment: ME and MD.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
30
Table 4.1. Availability of regulations and/or recommendations.
Y: exist, N: does not exist, P: in preparation, N/A: not available, - : no reply
4.2.3 Periodicity of frequency collection and population dose estimation
Figure 4.12. shows that the frequency with which data on examinations numbers was
collected is in general higher than the frequency with which the population dose was
estimated.. 17 countries repeated their frequency data collection every 1-2 years and 10
Country Collection of
frequencies
(number of
examinations)
Population
dose
estimation
Organization for
collection of
frequencies
Organization for
making
population dose
etimation
AT Y Y N N
BE Y Y Y Y
BG Y Y Y Y
CH Y Y Y Y
CY Y Y Y Y
CZ Y P Y ─
DE Y Y Y Y
DK Y Y Y Y
EE Y Y Y Y
EL Y Y Y Y
ES N Y N N
FI Y Y Y Y
FR Y Y Y Y
HR Y Y Y Y
HU Y Y Y Y
IE Y Y ─ ─
IS Y Y Y Y
IT Y Y Y Y
LT Y Y Y Y
LU Y Y Y N
LV Y Y Y Y
MD P P P P
ME ─ ─ ─ ─
MK Y Y Y ─
MT N N N N
NL Y Y Y Y
NO Y N N N
PL Y Y Y Y
PT Y Y Y N
RO Y Y Y Y
RS Y Y P P
SE Y Y ─ ─
SI Y Y N N
SK Y Y Y Y
UA Y Y Y Y
UK Y Y Y Y

Radiology in europe - general data
31
performed it every 3-5 years while 6 countries undertook population dose estimation with a
period of 1-2 years and 16 performed it every 3-5 years.
Figure 4.12. Periodicity of frequency collection (left pie chart) and population dose estimation
(right pie chart).
4.2.4 Reporting to UNSCEAR
In general the official authority responsible for providing data on medical exposures to
UNSCEAR was either the national public health ministry, nuclear safety agency or radiation
protection authority. The official authority may be involved in frequency collection and
population dose estimation or may delegate this task to a recognized scientific institution.
4.3 National coding systems
In order to compare x-ray examination frequency data between countries, and to assign
typical effective dose values to examinations, it is crucial that an “x-ray examination” is
defined and counted in a consistent way (EC, 2008). Due to the importance of the coding
systems for the surveys and comparisons in DDM2 project, the existing systems for coding
of the examinations were reviewed.
4.3.1 Existence of national systems for coding the examinations
As shown in Figure 4.13., 20 countries (51%) in spring 2011 had national radiological
procedures code system to categorize procedures (x-ray and NM procedures) and 16 (41%)
did not have such coding systems.
1 Y
41 %
2 Y
5 %
3 Y
8 %
5 Y
19 %
No reply
27 %
1 Y
16 %
3 Y
16 %
5 Y
27 %
No reply
41 %

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
32
Figure 4.13. Percentage of countries having or not national systems for coding the
examinations. N/A: no reply.
4.3.2 Number of codes
The number of codes for the 20 countries that had a coding system is shown in Figure 4.14.
It ranges from about 100 to 400 except for 3 countries where it is relatively high: IS (830), FI
(943) and UK (3220).
Figure 4.14. Number of codes.
4.3.3 Correspondence with RP154 categories
Fig. 4.15 shows the percentage of countries (from 39 countries: 36 countries as shown in
Table 3.1, as well as BA, BY and TR (Turkey)) that reported in spring 2011 that they were
able to provide data for x-ray procedures corresponding to the “20”, “70” and “225” DDM1
categories. As for the frequency data, according to Table 4.2 87 % of the countries (25
countries) were able to provide the data in the “top 20” format, 74 % (10 countries) were able
to provide it in the “70” format, and 46 % (6 countries) were able to provide it in the “225”
format and 26 % (3 countries) could provide it in a format of more than 225 types of
examinations. National contact points in the DDM2 survey have explained the country
specific methods on the population dose estimations in Annex 6.
Yes
51 %
No
41 %
N/A
8 %
235 212 150 200 345
118
943
321
122
820
200 140 259 300 225 361
74
388 400
3220
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
BE BY CH CZ DK EE FI FR HU IS IT LU MT NL NO PT RO SE SK UK
Number of codes

Radiology in europe - general data
33
Fig. 4.15 Percentage of different replies (yes, partly, no and N/A = no reply) for the 39 countries,
for “20” and “70” and “225” or more DDM1 categories (spring 2011), for frequency (upper
graph) and effective dose (lower graph). The figure shows that it is easier to provide frequency
data (relatively more “yes”or “partly” replies) than effective dose data – therefore fewer
countries reported being able to provide effective dose data.
Table 4.2. Percentage of countries who reported being able to provide frequency or dose
data fully or partly corresponding to the DDM1 categorization (spring 2011)
4.4 Availability of frequency and population dose data
For the purpose of planning the efforts of the data collection in this project, the availability of
frequency and population dose data in the European countries were reviewed as a part of
the first general questionnaire of the project. This information was used to classify the
countries in two groups:
 those that had carried out population dose estimations and were well prepared to
provide the requested detailed data on the examination frequencies, typical effective
doses and collective effective doses to population
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
20 70 225 >225
Replies in % of total
Number of types of exams
N/A
No
Partly
Yes
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
20 70 225 >225
Replies in % of total
Number of types of exams
N/A
No
Partly
Yes
Number of types of exams
(DDM1)
20 70 225 > 225
Frequency 87% 74% 46% 26%
Dose 80% 67% 39% 26%

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
34
 those that had less experience in the population dose estimation and who needed

more time to establish and carry out necessary data collections.
From among the second group of countries, five countries were selected as the “test
countries” which were particularly invited to the specific training course and subsequently
provided with more focused advice and support (see Section 3.1).
For completeness, the results of this part of the general questionnaire have been
summarized in Annex 7. However, conducting the questionnaires, organizing the training
course and all other actions within this project have had a tremendous impact on the
development of population dose estimations in those European countries which had little or
no previous experiences of this topic (e.g. CZ, EE, MK, MD, PT, RS, and ES; see country-
specific descriptions in Annex 6). As consequence, the data in Annex 7 has become partly
out of date at the time of completion of the present European population dose estimation.
Therefore, an additional questionnaire to review the present status of population dose
estimations was conducted later, in connection with the request for checking the national
data by the national contact points in spring 2012, preceding the Workshop where the
summaries of the data were presented for discussion. Based on this additional questionnaire,
the present status of population dose estimations (organization, methods) in several
countries has been summarized in Annex 6, The results of the European population dose
estimation presented and discussed in the next section are based on the latest estimations
described in Annex 6.

European population dose from medical imaging
35
5 EUROPEAN POPULATION DOSE FROM MEDICAL
IMAGING
The countries in the following analysis are discussed in two groups (see Table 3.1):
Group 1: EU-countries and Norway, Iceland and Switzerland (31 countries)
Group 2: All European countries included in this survey (36 countries)
The data presented in this chapter is based on the DDM2 survey. The detailed information
on national surveys including the year of the national survey is presented in the Annex 6
Table 6.1 for x-ray procedures and Table 6.2 for NM procedures.
5.1 X-ray procedures
5.1.1 Frequencies
The total annual frequency of x-ray procedures (including dental procedures) in the
European countries is
Group 1: 590 million, or 1100 examinations per 1000 of population, or 1,1 examinations per
caput.
Group 2: 660 million, or 1100 examinations per 1000 of population, or 1,1 examinations per
caput.
The distribution of the total number per 1000 population for different countries is shown in
Figure 5.1 and Table 5.1. The proportion of dental x-ray procedures from the total plain
radiography is shown for some countries (that provided detailed data from all x-ray
procedures) in Table 5.2.
In Fig. 5.1 and Table 5.1, the real reported data has been shown whenever available. For
countries which reported only Top 20 data, the results have been obtained from the results of
the evaluation of frequencies with the Top 20 method, using a correction factor that takes
into account the procedures not included in the Top 20. This correction factor (Table 5.3) has
been taken as the average ratio between the overall total frequency and the total frequency
evaluated by the Top 20 approach (total overall/total Top 20), calculated from the results for
the 11 countries of this survey which have reported both types of total frequencies (BG, CH,
DE, DK [only for CT], EL, FI, FR, IS, RO, RS and UK). However, in this calculation, the
frequency of plain radiography (with very large frequency of dental examinations) for IS has
been excluded from the calculation of the average ratio, because this value was
exceptionally high. In Figure 5.2, the distribution of the correction factors between these
countries has been presented.
For LT and CZ, the overall total frequencies (sum values in the last column of Table 5.1) are
reported real values, but the distribution in the four main groups has not been available and
therefore, has been estimated based on the average relative propositions derived from the
data for the above 11 European countries. For DK, the overall total frequency and the
frequency of CT examinations are real, but the other values have been estimated as for LT
and CZ. In UA, the fluorography (film and digital) is the most common x-ray examination,
about 499 exams per 1000 population, but this x-ray examination is not included in the
Top20. Therefore, for the calculation of the overall frequency of plain radiography in UA, the
frequency of fluorography has been added to the overall frequency of plain radiography
calculated from Top 20 data using the above correction factor. In HU, the high number of

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
36
radiography examinations is probably not real but partly explained by duplicated counting of
some examinations.
In general, the variation in the total number of examinations between the countries is high,
ranging from about 300 to about 2130 per 1000 population. The proportion of dental x-ray
procedures is on the average about 32 % of all plain radiography procedures, but because of
the low mean effective doses of these procedures their contribution to the collective effective
dose is not significant, typically only 2-4 % of the total collective effective dose for plain
radiography (see section 5.1.2.2).

European population dose from medical imaging
37
Table 5.1. The overall total frequencies of x-ray procedures per 1000 population for all
countries and for the main groups (plain radiography, fluoroscopy, computed tomography and
interventional radiology). Plain radiography includes dental procedures. Real numbers (not
estimated from Top 20) are in bold.
Country Plain
radiography
Fluoroscopy Computed
tomography
Interventional
radiology
Overall total
frequency
per 1000
population
AT 1160,3 46,7 98,0 7,8 1313
BE 1098,9 32,4 185,3 37,1 1354
BG 434,2 40,5 36,4 2,3 513
CH 1533,0 19,9 101,0 13,2 1667
CY 729,5 22,1 107,8 6,2 866
CZ 901,9 29,7 78,8 5,4 1016
DE 1247,9 45,7 131,9 11,1 1437
DK 465,2 17,0 94,7 3,1 580
EE 809,2 22,7 161,5 4,4 998
EL 608,5 28,1 93,8 3,8 734
ES 1435,7 24,7 100,2 4,2 1565
FI 1119,8 10,2 61,1 5,6 1197
FR 1002,6 20,2 118,7 6,9 1148
HR 701,2 46,8 48,7 7,1 804
HU 1691,8 55,8 110,0 6,2 1864
IE 1218,5 20,3 66,8 13,0 1319
IS 1956,8 20,1 147,2 5,1 2129
IT 1034,3 31,5 131,1 8,0 1205
LT 941,6 70,9 56,4 12,5 1081
LU 915,1 21,0 188,6 2,9 1128
LV 1104,3 30,7 116,4 3,7 1255
MD 610,5 34,6 9,4 0,3 655
ME 723,3 17,4 106,5 2,7 850
MK 572,8 27,3 20,3 5,0 625
MT 638,9 52,4 58,4 6,4 756
NL 603,9 18,1 73,5 5,3 701
NO 728,2 21,9 150,5 8,2 909
PL 1091,9 18,0 49,3 5,9 1165
PT 1398,9 15,4 158,0 3,8 1576
RO 227,9 41,1 27,5 0,2 297
RS 666,7 53,3 66,7 2,0 789
SE 647,0 24,3 94,2 5,3 771
SI 903,0 14,9 52,7 6,1 977
SK 1232,6 18,0 69,3 3,8 1324
UA 1181,2 28,1 8,0 0,4 1218
UK 668,2 17,5 55,4 5,1 746

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
38
Figure 5.1. Overall total frequencies per 1000 of population for different countries. The
relative contributions of the four main groups (plain radiography including dental, fluoroscopy,
computed tomography and interventional radiology) are also shown. Plain radiography
includes dental procedures.
Figure 5.2. Same as Fig. 5.1 but without plain radiography
Table 5.2. Proportion of the frequencies of dental x-ray procedures from the frequencies of
total plain radiography
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
IS
HU
CH
PT
ES
DE
BE
SK
IE
AT
LV
UA
IT
FI
PL
FR
LU
LT
CZ
EE
SI
NO
CY
ME
HR
RS
SE
MT
UK
EL
NL
MD
MK
DK
BG
RO
Overall total frequency per 1000 of
population
Plain radiography Fluoroscopy Computed tomography Interventional radiology
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
IS
HU
CH
PT
ES
DE
BE
SK
IE
AT
LV
UA
IT
FI
PL
FR
LU
LT
CZ
EE
SI
NO
CY
ME
HR
RS
SE
MT
UK
EL
NL
MD
MK
DK
BG
RO
Overall total frequency per 1000
of population
Fluoroscopy Computed tomography Interventional radiology
Country Total plain
radiography per
1000 population
Total dental
procedures per
1000 population
Dental procedures as
a % of total plain
radiography
BG 434 62 14,4
CH 1533 692 45,1
DE 1248 391 31,4
FI 1120 469 41,9
FR 1003 294 29,4
UK 668 204 30,5
Mean 1001 352 32,1

European population dose from medical imaging
39
Table 5.3. Ratios of total overall/total Top 20 frequencies for 11 countries; the mean values
for the main groups are used as corrections factors for each group to estimate the overall
values from Top 20 values
Figure 5.3. The distribution of the correction factors (overall total frequency/Top 20 total
frequency) between the 12 countries, for all x-ray examinations and for the main groups
Country All Top 20 groups together Plain
radiography
Fluoroscopy CT IR
BG 1,72 1,75 2,61 1,09 2,97
CH 3,07 3,44 2,56 1,14 5,58
DE 2,91 3,49 1,61 1,26 4,01
DK 1,24
EL 1,26 1,30 1,32 1,00 2,28
FI 2,77 3,05 2,05 1,05 4,10
FR 2,00 2,21 2,09 1,09 0,00
IS 4,30 5,74 1,69 1,05 2,13
RO 1,55 1,50 3,11 1,03 0,00
RS 1,26 1,24 1,62 1,31 1,27
UK 2,21 2,40 1,79 1,16 3,52
2,25
(IS excluded) 2,04 1,13 3,23
Mean for all Top 20
groups together
2,08
(IS excluded)
Top 20 frequency as
a % of the overall
frequency
48,1
(IS excluded) 44,4 48,9 88,7 30,9
Mean for the main groups = Correction factors
0,0
1,0
2,0
3,0
4,0
5,0
6,0
7,0
Total Plain
radiography
Fluoroscopy CT IR
Overall total frequency/
TOP 20 total frequency
BG
CH
DE
DK
EL
FI
FR
IS
RO
RS
UK
Mean

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
40
The total number of Top 20 x-ray examinations per year in the European countries is
Group 1: 270 million, or 530 examinations per 1000 of population, or 0,53 examinations per
caput.
Group 2: 290 million, or 510 examinations per 1000 of population, or 0,51 examinations per
caput.
The total numbers for all countries obtained by the Top 20 method are shown in Table 5.4 for
the four main groups and for each Top 20 group in Table 5.5. to Table 5.7. Note that dental
procedures are not included in the plain radiography groups of Top 20.
Table 5.3 represents a comparison of the overall total frequencies (including dental) and Top
20 total frequencies (not including dental), for the sum of all countries,. It can be seen that
the Top 20 examinations as defined in RP 154 on the average contribute to about 48 % of
the total. In the 10 European countries of the DDM1 project the contribution of Top 20
examinations to the total was between 50 and 70 %, but the total then did not include dental
procedures. If the contribution of dental examinations to the total plain radiography
examinations is assumed to be on the average 32.1 % (Table 5.2), the contribution of Top 20
examinations to the overall total excluding dental will become 65 % which is rather consistent
with the comparable DDM1 data.
All 36 European countries included in this survey (28 Member States, 3 EFTA countries CH,
NO and IS, and 5 other countries MK, MD, ME, RS and UA) could provide the Top 20
estimation, except for one Member State, LV, which only provided overall frequencies (Table
5.1). Some details of the evaluation of the frequencies for each country (sample sizes,
extrapolations to the whole county etc.) are briefly described in Annex 6.

European population dose from medical imaging
41
Table 5.4. The Top 20 total frequencies of x-ray procedures per 1000 of population for all
countries and for the main groups (plain radiography, fluoroscopy, computed tomography and
interventional radiology). LV: no Top 20 data provided. Plain radiography of the Top 20 method
does not include dental procedures.
Country Plain
radiography
Fluoroscopy Computed
tomography
Interventional
radiology
TOP 20 total
frequency
per 1000
AT 514,9 22,8 63,4 0,4 602
BE 487,6 15,9 164,3 11,5 679
BG 248,7 15,5 33,3 0,8 298
CH 445,2 7,8 88,5 2,4 544
CY 323,7 10,8 95,6 1,9 432
CZ 617,1 13,1 87,4 5,2 723
DE 357,5 28,4 104,9 2,8 494
DK 274,2 3,7 76,5 1,6 356
EE 359,1 11,1 143,2 1,4 515
EL 466,9 21,3 93,8 1,7 584
ES 637,1 12,1 88,8 1,3 739
FI 367,7 5,0 58,4 1,4 432
FR 452,9 9,7 108,9 2,0 573
HR 311,1 22,9 43,2 2,2 379
HU 750,7 27,3 97,5 1,9 877
IE 540,7 9,9 59,2 4,0 614
IS 340,9 11,9 140,4 2,4 496
IT 459,0 15,4 116,2 2,5 593
LT 650,5 34,7 51,2 1,4 738
LU 406,1 10,3 167,3 0,9 584
LV
MD 270,9 16,9 8,3 0,1 296
ME 321,0 8,5 94,5 0,8 425
MK 254,2 13,4 18,0 1,5 287
MT 283,5 25,6 51,8 2,0 363
NL 268,0 8,9 65,2 1,6 344
NO 323,1 10,7 133,4 2,5 470
PL 484,5 8,8 43,7 1,8 539
PT 620,8 7,5 140,1 1,2 770
RO 151,5 13,2 26,8 0,2 192
RS 538,0 32,8 51,0 1,6 623
SE 287,1 11,9 83,5 1,6 384
SI 400,7 7,3 46,7 1,9 457
SK 546,9 8,8 61,4 1,2 618
UA 302,8 13,7 7,1 0,1 324
UK 278,1 9,8 47,9 1,4 337

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
42
Table 5.5. Frequencies of x-ray procedures per 1000 of population for all countries and for
Top 20 groups 1-7. na: not available, 0.00: zero examinations reported.
Country
Code
Chest/
Thorax
Cervical
spine
Thoracic
spine
Lumbar
spine
(inc.LSJ)
Mammo-
graphy
Abdomen Pelvis &
hip
AT 235,37 39,47 26,47 47,67 88,08 18,51 59,31
BE 229,47 20,11 13,68 37,34 68,10 31,84 87,09
BG 159,81 14,73 7,99 19,99 15,22 10,39 20,55
CH 232,84 25,32 11,19 49,24 50,26 19,61 56,75
CY 194,42 20,23 10,26 29,14 19,97 29,95 19,73
CZ 234,89 35,11 64,25 0,00 210,24 24,67 47,95
DE 37,47 33,99 18,01 58,17 127,05 19,87 62,93
DK 118,65 6,36 7,80 21,41 76,21 5,01 38,78
EE 178,03 26,36 13,18 26,36 81,82 10,98 22,35
EL 297,70 na na 77,03 47,31 14,19 30,64
ES 315,96 40,84 34,13 65,34 80,21 46,59 54,03
FI 209,93 14,06 6,26 26,52 59,08 9,52 42,35
FR 176,87 18,25 6,98 44,70 79,69 37,21 89,21
HR 146,92 15,81 7,61 18,84 58,51 20,18 43,28
HU 281,75 30,09 61,30 52,67 170,80 44,80 109,30
IE 298,96 35,97 15,87 57,66 23,11 40,40 68,73
IS 175,33 8,91 8,02 19,43 68,29 15,67 45,20
IT 196,99 29,84 15,87 45,76 74,80 26,60 69,10
LT 317,31 40,48 22,43 67,84 83,70 29,54 89,17
LU 173,58 24,73 15,06 40,58 64,77 15,91 71,43
LV na na na na na na na
MD 128,19 34,30 31,12 34,93 3,40 14,19 24,77
ME 180,68 24,50 12,14 32,08 18,78 23,67 29,11
MK 133,34 17,82 9,88 24,31 7,16 11,24 50,43
MT 154,97 9,83 3,26 19,64 19,75 48,40 27,64
NL 142,24 11,05 7,75 25,54 22,85 18,81 39,76
NO 145,72 9,99 5,76 20,84 71,92 9,53 59,38
PL 271,77 55,15 23,81 46,37 27,50 11,14 48,77
PT 346,58 45,28 24,45 50,28 65,04 44,55 44,59
RO 75,96 11,85 10,13 27,34 8,98 6,73 10,50
SE 105,38 10,22 8,07 22,79 85,53 5,94 49,17
SI 187,07 39,56 17,40 54,31 46,35 18,89 37,13
SK 198,18 41,90 5,99 71,83 182,32 22,64 24,09
SP 205,31 55,45 46,79 80,17 50,56 29,75 70,00
UA 141,99 25,90 19,72 49,45 12,89 29,29 23,55
UK 146,72 9,34 3,85 15,46 43,64 20,07 39,03

European population dose from medical imaging
43
Table 5.6. Frequencies of x-ray procedures per 1000 of population for all countries and for
Top 20 groups 8-12 and 20. na: not available, 0.00: zero examinations reported.
Country
Code
Ba
meal
Ba
enema
Ba
follow-
through
IVU Cardiac
angiography
PTCA
AT 5,69 8,59 0,90 0,88 6,78 0,44
BE 4,79 1,76 0,57 2,63 6,11 11,47
BG 6,92 2,99 0,88 1,89 2,84 0,78
CH 1,18 0,68 0,32 1,14 4,44 2,36
CY 3,06 1,82 0,10 3,66 2,19 1,92
CZ 4,26 1,94 0,46 4,39 2,10 5,24
DE 0,35 2,00 0,18 8,94 16,92 2,77
DK 1,00 0,70 0,82 0,30 0,84 1,64
EE 1,48 1,01 1,29 1,67 5,68 1,36
EL 9,85 7,05 na 0,53 3,90 1,68
ES 3,79 2,58 1,04 3,22 1,45 1,30
FI 0,04 0,21 0,81 0,38 3,54 1,35
FR 1,73 1,12 0,45 2,03 4,36 1,96
HR 8,96 3,09 1,44 4,51 4,91 2,20
HU 7,11 3,38 3,16 10,16 3,48 1,92
IE 0,00 1,68 0,90 0,38 6,96 4,03
IS 3,29 0,77 1,75 2,20 3,84 2,41
IT 2,87 4,53 na 3,65 4,35 2,46
LT 0,77 11,49 1,64 12,58 8,21 1,44
LU 2,97 0,60 0,28 1,91 4,53 0,89
LV na na na na na na
MD 9,12 1,70 2,28 3,15 0,66 0,08
ME 2,73 1,24 0,24 2,63 1,64 0,84
MK 7,00 0,23 1,39 3,00 1,74 1,54
MT 3,16 6,93 8,64 0,98 5,93 1,98
NL 1,10 1,34 0,21 0,19 6,04 1,65
NO 0,74 1,16 1,22 1,25 6,33 2,53
PL 1,05 0,26 0,66 3,34 3,52 1,83
PT 2,83 1,27 0,34 0,07 3,01 1,16
RO 7,26 1,91 0,73 2,91 0,39 0,17
SE 0,55 3,26 1,79 3,07 3,23 1,63
SI 1,01 0,70 0,53 1,26 3,80 1,88
SK 1,02 0,66 1,56 2,34 3,20 1,17
SP 16,88 5,89 1,38 4,09 4,59 1,58
UA 7,31 2,37 1,08 2,17 0,81 0,12
UK 0,62 3,80 0,73 1,37 3,30 1,44

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
44
Table 5.7. Frequencies of x-ray procedures per 1000 of population for all countries and for
Top 20 groups 13-19. na: not available, nc: not counted (included in other groups; e.g. in EE
besides CT head, all other CT examinations are categorized in CT trunk), 0.00: zero
examinations reported
The relative overall total frequencies (% of the frequency of all x-ray examinations), for the
main groups of plain radiography, fluoroscopy, CT and IR, are shown in Table 5.8 and in
Figure 5.4 and Figure 5.5. It can be seen that plain radiography is by far the most common x-
ray examination in all countries (from 76,8 to 97 %), while the relative frequencies of CT
(from 0,7 to 16,7 %), fluoroscopy (from 0,9 to 13,9 %) and IR (from 0,03 to 2,7 %) vary a lot
between the countries.
Country
Code
CT
head
CT
neck
CT
chest
CT
spine
CT
abdomen
CT
pelvis
CT
trunk
AT 25,39 0,81 12,07 4,78 11,45 5,24 3,64
BE 50,68 0,94 29,54 35,35 47,83 nc nc
BG 16,48 nc 4,22 4,23 6,01 2,08 0,23
CH 23,92 5,70 17,51 3,95 24,08 3,17 10,18
CY 16,55 4,07 13,60 10,11 15,34 8,37 27,52
CZ 39,34 0,00 9,62 12,24 16,61 9,62 0,00
DE 31,45 2,55 17,81 21,44 25,04 1,35 5,23
DK 21,96 4,34 20,03 0,92 24,32 4,34 0,55
EE 31,06 nc nc nc nc nc 112,12
EL 19,67 5,00 18,27 8,70 40,59 na 1,55
ES 22,51 4,72 18,59 10,44 15,14 8,16 9,28
FI 27,97 2,55 10,45 1,46 7,65 1,61 6,75
FR 30,25 2,39 25,44 14,39 34,18 1,25 1,00
HR 22,98 0,76 4,36 2,07 6,26 1,25 5,55
HU 38,22 1,28 22,70 10,03 23,27 2,02 nc
IE 22,93 0,93 8,32 0,00 14,60 0,00 12,42
IS 49,66 6,98 28,24 13,21 40,07 2,27 nc
IT 48,41 2,56 21,01 12,13 29,85 2,29 na
LT 25,78 2,26 5,18 10,25 4,36 3,37 nc
LU 47,94 26,94 0,00 41,83 45,84 0,00 4,69
LV na na na na na na na
MD 3,74 0,21 0,62 0,84 0,85 0,30 1,76
ME 15,70 19,62 14,88 16,00 17,79 10,47 0,00

MK 9,97 1,07 2,06 1,27 2,33 0,43 0,90
MT 21,73 0,77 4,83 0,62 12,81 8,64 2,39
NL 21,74 nc 17,08 3,23 22,08 1,08 nc
NO 36,05 7,34 24,64 4,81 35,71 24,85 nc
PL 23,24 na 7,88 4,81 7,76 na na
PT 47,74 1,88 21,24 21,24 20,96 13,81 13,24
RO 14,53 0,89 3,24 1,15 4,88 2,13 0,00
SE 36,39 4,29 15,01 0,90 25,86 0,59 0,47
SI 23,99 1,42 6,45 3,14 8,71 0,53 2,47
SK 26,37 1,52 8,22 7,07 10,25 3,40 4,61
SP 23,46 4,59 7,49 2,76 7,71 3,59 1,42
UA 3,36 0,11 1,33 0,56 1,44 0,28 0,06
UK 18,71 1,64 6,36 0,47 4,34 1,51 14,89

European population dose from medical imaging
45
Figure 5.4. Relative frequencies as a percentage of the overall total frequency of all x-ray
examinations. Plain radiography includes dental procedures.
Figure 5.5. Relative frequencies as a percentage of the overall total frequency of all x-ray
examinations except plain radiography
0 %
20 %
40 %
60 %
80 %
100 %
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Plain radiography Fluoroscopy Computed tomography Interventional radiology
0
5
10
15
20
25
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Relative frequency % of the
overall total frequency
Fluoroscopy Computed tomography Interventional radiology

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
46
Table 5.8. Relative frequencies as a percentage of the overall total frequency (Table 5.1) of all x-
ray examinations, for all countries. Plain radiography includes dental procedures.
The average frequencies per 1000 of population obtained in this study, for the Top 20
groups, are compared in Table 5.9 and Figure 5.6 with similar data from the 10 European
Country Plain
radiography
Fluoroscopy Computed
tomography
Interventional
radiology
AT 88,4 3,6 7,5 0,59
BE 81,2 2,4 13,7 2,74
BG 84,6 7,9 7,1 0,45
CH 92,0 1,2 6,1 0,79
CY 84,3 2,6 12,5 0,72
CZ 88,8 2,9 7,8 0,53
DE 86,9 3,2 9,2 0,77
DK 80,2 2,9 16,3 0,53
EE 81,1 2,3 16,2 0,44
EL 82,9 3,8 12,8 0,52
ES 91,7 1,6 6,4 0,27
FI 93,6 0,9 5,1 0,46
FR 87,3 1,8 10,3 0,60
HR 87,2 5,8 6,1 0,88
HU 90,8 3,0 5,9 0,33
IE 92,4 1,5 5,1 0,99
IS 91,9 0,9 6,9 0,24
IT 85,8 2,6 10,9 0,66
LT 87,1 6,6 5,2 1,15
LU 81,2 1,9 16,7 0,26
LV 88,0 2,4 9,3 0,29
MD 93,2 5,3 1,4 0,04
ME 85,1 2,0 12,5 0,32
MK 91,6 4,4 3,3 0,80
MT 84,5 6,9 7,7 0,84
NL 86,2 2,6 10,5 0,76
NO 80,1 2,4 16,6 0,90
PL 93,7 1,5 4,2 0,51
PT 88,8 1,0 10,0 0,24
RO 76,8 13,9 9,3 0,06
RS 84,5 6,8 8,5 0,25
SE 83,9 3,2 12,2 0,68
SI 92,5 1,5 5,4 0,62
SK 93,1 1,4 5,2 0,29
UA 97,0 2,3 0,7 0,03
UK 89,5 2,4 7,4 0,68
Max 97,0 13,9 16,7 2,7
Min 76,8 0,9 0,7 0,03
Mean 87,4 3,3 8,7 0,6

European population dose from medical imaging
47
countries in DDM1 project and UNSCEAR Health Care Level 1 (HCL1) countries. The
average values are simple mean values for the countries in question, without weighting of the
country values by the population numbers. The data in Table 5.9 should be used only to
indicate differences in the frequency (how common is the examination) between the groups
of countries given in the Table, and for DDM1 countries, the tendency of frequency between
DDM1 study and this new DDM2 study. These average frequencies should not be used to
anyway estimate European population dose; the European population dose in this study has
been estimated based on reported frequencies and reported typical effective doses per
procedure from each country, and summing up the obtained collective effective doses.
Table 5.9. Average frequencies per 1000 of population obtained in this study, for TOP 20
groups, compared with similar data from the 10 European countries in DDM1 project and
UNSCEAR Health Care Level 1 (HCL1) countries
Chest/Thorax 194 151 177 168
Cervical spine 26,0 16,9 26,1 32
Thoracic spine 17,5 9,8 15,0 16
Lumbar spine (inc.LSJ) 39,5 33,6 38,2 31
Mammography 63,3 69,0 58,2 43
Abdomen 22,5 18,4 21,4 45
Pelvis & hip 48,7 59,4 59,3 40
Ba meal 3,8 1,5 3,6
Ba enema 2,6 1,6 4,7 9,3
Ba follow-through 1,2 0,7 1,1
IVU 2,8 2,3 7,0 8,5
Cardiac angiography 4,2 5,6 5,4 1,5
CT head 26,9 31,9 26,3 40
CT neck 3,9 6,2 2,9
CT chest 12,6 17,3 8,9 24
CT spine 8,4 12,7 10,5 11
CT abdomen 18,1 28,9 14,4 30
CT pelvis 4,1 4,8 3,5 19
CT trunk 9,0 5,3 1,8
PTCA 2,0 2,8 1,2 0,9
TOP 20 Group Average of 36
European countries
(this survey)
Average for 10
DDM1 countries
(EC 2008)
UNSCEAR
HCL1
(UNSCEAR 2010)
Average for 10
DDM1 countries
(this survey)

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
48
(a)
(b)
Figure 5.6. Average frequencies per 1000 of population obtained in this study, for TOP 20
groups, , compared with similar data from the 10 European countries in DDM1 project and
UNSCEAR Health Care Level 1 (HCL1) countries; (a) plain radiography (b) other Top 20 groups.
It can be seen from Table 5.9 that for several groups of plain radiography and fluoroscopy,
the average frequency of DDM1 countries is lower that the average of all 36 countries, while
for CA, PTCA and most of the CT groups, the reverse is true. In the DDM1 countries, the
average frequencies for several groups of plain radiography and fluoroscopy have decreased
significantly from the results of an earlier study (EC 2008), while the frequencies of the CA,
PTCA and all CT groups have significantly increased, in some cases more than doubled (for
CT trunk about threefold increase). Because the latter groups represent the high-dose
procedures (Table 5.14) the net effect is that the population dose seems to have increased in
the DDM1 countries (see Table 5.18). Comparison of the results of this survey with the
UNSCEAR data shows that the frequencies of the most conventional examinations in this
survey are lower than in the UNSCEAR data for HCL 1 countries, while the frequencies for
some more complex examinations (CA, PTCA) are higher; this can be understandable, as
the UNSCEAR data is worldwide and generally older than the data of this survey.
The above comparisons of average values (Table 5.9) can give some indication of the
trends. However, comparison of the trends on a country level should not be done without
careful considerations of the origins of the reported values, which can only be done at the
0
50
100
150
200
250
Chest/Thorax Cervical spine Thoracic spine Lumbar spine
(inc.LSJ)
Mammography Abdomen Pelvis & hip
Frequency per 1000 population
Average of 36 European countries (this survey) Average of 10 DDM1 countries (this survey)
Average of 10 DDM1 countries (EC 2008) UNSCEAR HCL1 (UNSCEAR 2010)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Frequency per 1000 population
Average of 36 European countries (this survey) Average of 10 DDM1 countries (this survey)
Average of 10 DDM1 countries (EC 2008) UNSCEAR HCL1 (UNSCEAR 2010)

European population dose from medical imaging
49
country level. As an example, comparison of frequency data for CT trunk in UK from Table
5.7. with the earlier data reported (EC, 2008), indicates about 37-fold increase; while the
reported trend in UK for this CT examination in 2001 was upwards, the huge increase might
be partly explainable also if there has been a change in the practice of grouping CT trunk
examinations.
It could be assumed that the higher is the frequency of x-ray procedure, the higher is the
number of key professionals, e.g. radiologists in the country. Figure 5.7 does indicate that
there is some statistical significance in the correlation (p<0,05) between the two variables.
There is stronger correlation (p<0,01) between the number of CT and the number of CT
examinations., as can be seen from an example in Figure 5.8. On the basis of the data
collected in this project conclusions on reasons can not be drawn if the number of CTs
promotes to make more examinations or if the diagnostic need is higher then more CTs have
been purchased.
Figure 5.9 shows the correlation between the overall frequency of the x-ray procedures and
the reimbursement system. The mean frequency per million of population is not much
different in the two groups of countries, where hospital is reimbursed or not reimbursed for
each procedure. However, it seems to be significantly higher in those countries where the
practitioner is reimbursed for each procedure, compared with countries where the practitioner
is not reimbursed for each procedure. This observation is supported by the result of the
questionnaire shown in Figure 4.9, i.e., the majority of replies believed that the
reimbursement system affects the frequency of x-ray examinations. This suggests that the
reimbursement system might encourage practitioners to carry out x-ray examinations more
than might be justified.
Figure 5.7. Correlation between the frequency of Top 20 x-ray procedures per 1000 of
population and the number of radiologists per million of population in the countries.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
50
Figure 5.8. Correlation between the frequency of Top 20 CT procedures per 1000 of
population and the number of CT equipment per million of population in the countries.
Figure 5.9. Correlation of the overall frequency of x-ray examinations and the
reimbursement system.
0
200000
400000
600000
800000
1000000
1200000
1400000
Hospital reimbursed for
each procedure
Practitioner reimbursed for
each procedure
Mean ferquency of x
-ray
procedures per million of
population
Yes
No

European population dose from medical imaging
51
5.1.2 Effective doses
5.1.2.1 Typical effective doses
For the Top 20 groups of examinations, the typical effective doses estimated in European
countries are shown in Table 5.10., Table 5.11. and Table 5.12. The different countries have
used their particular approaches to estimate effective doses for x-ray examinations. Nearly
all values correspond to the use of tissue weighting factors from ICRP 60. There is only 2 %
increase in the overall effective dose in using tissue weighting factors from ICRP 103 (Hart,
2008). The variation of the typical effective dose between the countries is shown by graphs
for all Top 20 groups in Annex 5. The variation of the typical effective dose, (range,
max/min), together with its average values calculated as the mean for all countries, for each
Top 20 group are shown in Table 5.13.
In Table 5.14. and Figure 5.10, the typical effective doses obtained in this study are
compared with the earlier data from 10 European countries and UNSCEAR Health Care
Level 1 (HCL1) countries. There are not very large differences between the various data
sets. The average values reported in this study from the 10 DDM1 countries are typically
lower than the similar values reported in the earlier study (EC 2008).

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
52
Table 5.10. The typical effective doses (mSv) estimated in European countries for plain
radiography (Top 20 groups 1-7) (na: data not available)
Country Chest/
Thorax
Cervical
spine
Thoracic
spine
Lumbar
spine
(inc.LSJ)
Mammo
graphy
Abdomen Pelvis
& hip
AT 0,13 0,05 0,40 0,68 0,35 0,31 0,38
BE 0,09 0,17 0,48 3,15 0,02 0,68 0,73
BG 0,06 0,27 0,50 0,85 0,18 1,50 0,70
CH 0,05 0,10 0,44 1,63 0,16 0,78 0,94
CY 0,04 0,02 0,17 0,45 0,17 0,52 0,57
CZ 0,06 0,35 0,80 2,00 0,36 1,10 1,40
DE 0,22 0,29 0,54 1,35 0,12 0,86 0,69
DK 0,07 0,04 0,40 1,08 0,28 0,50 0,55
EE 0,10 0,27 1,00 1,90 0,33 1,50 0,90
EL 0,07 na na 1,27 0,56 na 0,66
ES 0,06 0,09 0,23 0,89 0,28 0,69 0,55
FI 0,07 0,11 0,39 0,81 0,20 0,80 0,34
FR 0,05 0,30 0,50 1,55 0,15 1,90 1,10
HR 0,18 0,08 0,33 0,97 0,47 0,50 0,60
HU 0,25 0,40 1,20 1,50 0,40 1,50 1,50
IE 0,02 0,04 0,20 0,29 0,54 0,39 0,27
IS 0,14 0,14 0,77 1,98 0,22 2,93 0,75
IT 0,09 0,20 0,60 0,53 0,25 0,66 0,77
LT 0,16 0,27 0,76 1,09 0,03 0,17 0,28
LU 0,13 0,20 0,70 1,04 0,50 1,00 0,77
LV na na na na na na na
MD 0,22 0,06 0,61 0,99 0,06 0,11 0,21
ME 0,26 0,11 0,38 0,75 na 0,51 0,80
MK 0,25 0,70 2,00 2,80 0,40 1,80 1,35
MT 0,02 0,33 1,45 1,24 0,13 0,26 0,53
NL 0,04 0,02 0,30 0,44 0,35 0,44 0,37
NO 0,07 0,07 0,49 1,36 0,15 1,25 0,41
PL 0,20 0,30 0,50 1,70 0,60 1,70 2,00
PT 0,06 0,05 0,57 1,07 0,13 0,72 0,82
RO 0,10 0,09 0,14 1,27 0,12 0,22 0,29
RS 0,04 0,12 0,62 0,93 0,22 0,44 0,30
SE 0,05 0,27 1,00 1,05 0,08 1,50 0,38
SI 0,05 0,07 0,37 0,80 0,41 0,42 0,52
SK 0,05 0,08 0,42 0,55 0,17 0,64 0,58
UA 0,10 0,70 2,00 2,50 0,40 1,80 1,60
UK 0,01 0,03 0,38 0,60 0,50 0,43 0,22
MEAN 0,102 0,188 0,636 1,230 0,273 0,898 0,709
MAX 0,26 0,70 2,00 3,15 0,60 2,93 2,00
MIN 0,01 0,02 0,14 0,29 0,02 0,11 0,21
MAX/MIN 18,6 41,2 14,2 10,9 35,3 27,9 9,7

European population dose from medical imaging
53
Table 5.11. The typical effective doses (mSv) estimated in European countries for
fluoroscopy and interventional radiology (Top 20 groups 8-12 and 20) (na: data not available)
Country Ba
meal
Ba
enema
Ba
follow-
through
IVU Cardiac
angio-
graphy
PTCA
AT 1,8 5,3 7,9 1,7 11,2 18,1
BE 6,2 10,4 6,8 5,6 10,0 10,0
BG 3,1 8,7 10,0 4,0 6,4 14,0
CH 12,0 12,0 3,8 2,1 11,2 17,0
CY 2,1 2,4 4,7 2,7 7,7 14,4
CZ 1,9 3,5 3,5 2,9 9,2 18,2
DE 12,5 11,4 7,0 3,1 9,0 11,7
DK 2,6 5,3 4,4 2,7 5,3 11,7
EE 7,7 8,6 10,0 4,0 9,1 14,0
EL na na na na na na
ES 4,9 8,3 7,7 2,5 4,9 19,0
FI 2,6 2,6 0,6 2,4 7,8 19,4
FR 12,0 12,0 4,1 2,6 11,2 22,0
HR 7,7 8,6 10,0 4,0 5,1 11,0
HU 10,9 12,2 9,2 4,2 7,3 21,0
IE na 4,6 1,5 1,9 6,0 17,1
IS 3,4 25,2 6,6 3,4 4,6 11,9
IT 2,0 6,5 na 1,6 8,0 20,9
LT 3,1 7,2 1,9 3,3 9,5 13,0
LU 9,0 8,9 8,8 3,5 3,3 6,6
LV na na na na na na
MD 3,6 3,6 7,8 0,4 10,8 4,0
ME 8,6 7,2 5,3 3,6 8,0 29,0
MK 15,0 12,5 24,5 3,5 11,3 15,4
MT 0,8 4,0 1,2 1,5 8,8 15,2
NL 3,0 6,3 5,5 3,0 4,3 11,7
NO 5,2 7,3 4,8 2,4 7,6 16,9
PL 11,6 15,9 15,5 4,0 10,0 23,0
PT 7,8 13,3 na 4,2 6,8 14,5
RO 12,6 10,0 2,4 3,7 4,8 8,7
RS 2,4 6,7 2,9 2,5 10,0 26,0
SE 7,7 5,6 10,0 2,2 6,6 14,0
SI 1,4 7,8 5,3 0,9 4,3 12,4
SK 3,8 9,7 12,4 2,9 9,5 12,8
UA 12,0 12,5 24,5 3,5 8,6 15,4
UK 2,0 2,2 1,3 2,1 3,9 7,8
MEAN 6,16 8,48 7,25 2,90 7,71 15,2
MAX 15,0 25,2 24,5 5,63 11,3 29,0
MIN 0,80 2,2 0,63 0,43 3,3 4,0
MAX/MIN 18,8 11,5 38,9 13,0 3,5 7,3

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
54
Table 5.12. The typical effective doses (mSv) estimated in European countries for computed
tomography (Top 20 groups 13-19) (na: data not available)
Country CT
head
CT
neck
CT
chest
CT
spine
CT
abdomen
CT
pelvis
CT
trunk
AT 2,3 2,3 6,7 5,0 14,7 8,0 4,0
BE 1,3 2,9 4,2 10,1 8,6 na na
BG 1,3 na 5,5 5,3 11,2 11,2 14,0
CH 1,4 2,9 5,6 9,2 11,3 8,0 10,5
CY 4,0 2,3 4,3 8,7 10,4 6,3 8,0
CZ 1,3 na 5,1 2,5 6,7 5,0 na
DE 1,6 2,0 5,8 6,3 12,2 6,1 17,8
DK 2,2 2,5 8,2 13,4 12,2 6,4 50,5
EE 2,0 na na na na na 7,2
EL 2,1 3,4 10,9 7,1 7,0 na 13,1
ES 2,0 1,8 4,4 8,9 10,0 7,8 15,8
FI 1,2 1,3 3,9 5,6 6,7 14,5 8,8
FR 1,8 5,0 6,4 9,1 9,4 0,8 33,0
HR 1,8 2,5 5,0 6,2 7,5 4,8 15,7
HU 1,0 2,9 6,8 12,0 12,1 7,0 12,0
IE 1,7 1,9 7,3 na 8,4 na 12,9
IS 2,5 5,4 6,4 11,8 14,1 9,3 na
IT 1,6 2,2 7,9 6,3 8,6 7,8 na
LT 1,9 2,5 5,6 6,9 28,7 6,5 na
LU 2,7 2,5 3,9 11,8 10,5 na 7,9
LV na na na na na na na
MD 0,3 0,4 20,4 16,3 17,2 4,2 2,4
ME 1,9 2,1 na na 20,1 7,1 na
MK 2,4 2,8 8,2 6,0 13,5 8,8 24,4
MT 1,0 1,0 11,2 na 12,4 6,7 7,1
NL 1,2 na 5,5 3,1 10,6 7,4 na
NO 1,5 2,6 4,7 5,6 10,0 7,3 na
PL 2,5 na 8,0 10,0 17,0 na na
PT 1,9 1,7 4,9 9,3 6,7 4,1 7,7
RO 3,9 2,5 2,0 2,4 2,6 2,1 na
RS 1,9 1,9 5,6 4,8 8,2 7,3 17,0
SE 2,0 2,5 5,1 7,7 9,7 8,7 14,0
SI 2,9 3,0 6,7 9,9 15,3 9,8 17,6
SK 2,4 3,4 6,8 5,2 12,6 12,7 15,5
UA 2,4 2,8 8,2 6,0 13,5 8,8 24,4
UK 1,4 2,4 5,3 6,9 5,6 6,0 8,0
MEAN 1,92 2,52 6,56 7,72 11,3 7,26 14,8
MAX 3,98 5,38 20,4 16,3 28,7 14,5 50,5
MIN 0,28 0,42 2,0 2,4 2,6 0,80 2,4
MAX/MIN 14,3 13,0 10,0 6,9 11,0 18,1 21,5

European population dose from medical imaging
55
Table 5.13. The average values of typical effective doses (E) for TOP 20 groups, calculated
as a mean of all countries. In France the only CT pelvis procedure is pelvimetry.
Table 5.14. Average values of the typical effective doses (mSv) obtained in this study,
compared with earlier data from 10 European countries and UNSCEAR Health Care Level 1
(HCL1) countries.
TOP 20 group E, mSv Range, mSv Max/min
Chest/Thorax 0,1 0,014-0,26 18,6
Cervical spine 0,2 0,02-0,7 41,2
Thoracic spine 0,6 0,14-2,0 14,2
Lumbar spine (inc.LSJ) 1,2 0,29-3,15 10,9
Mammography 0,3 0,02-0,6 35,3
Abdomen 0,9 0,11-2,9 27,9
Pelvis & hip 0,7 0,21-2,0 9,7
Ba meal 6,2 0,8-15.0 18,8
Ba enema 8,5 2,2-25,2 11,5
Ba follow-through 7,2 0,63-24,5 38,9
IVU 2,9 0,43-5,63 13,0
Cardiac angio-graphy 7,7 3,25-11,25 3,5
CT head 1,9 0,28-3,98 14,3
CT neck 2,5 0,42-5,38 13,0
CT chest 6,6 2,03-20,4 10,0
CT spine 7,7 2,38-16,3 6,9
CT abdomen 11,3 2,61-28,7 11,0
CT pelvis 7,3 0,8-14,5 18,1
CT trunk 14,8 2,35-50,5 21,5
PTCA 15,2 4,0-29,0 7,3
Chest/Thorax 0,1 0,1 0,1 0,1
Cervical spine 0,2 0,1 0,3 0,2
Thoracic spine 0,6 0,5 1,0 0,8
Lumbar spine (inc.LSJ) 1,2 1,3 1,9 2,2
Mammography 0,3 0,2 0,3 0,4
Abdomen 0,9 0,9 1,5 0,8
Pelvis & hip 0,7 0,6 0,9 1,1
Ba meal 6,2 7,2 7,7
Ba enema 8,5 8,1 8,6 7,4
Ba follow-through 7,2 5,7 10,5
IVU 2,9 2,9 4,0 2,6
Cardiac angiography 7,7 7,2 9,1 11,2
CT head 1,9 1,7 2,0 2,4
CT neck 2,5 2,8 2,5
CT chest 6,6 5,5 8,0 7,8
CT spine 7,7 8,3 5,3 5
CT abdomen 11,3 10,0 11,8 12,4
CT pelvis 7,3 6,3 8,7 9,4
CT trunk 14,8 20,2 13,5
PTCA 15,2 12,9 14,1 11,9
TOP 20 Group Average of 36
European countries
(this survey)
Average for 10
DDM1 countries
(EC 2008)
UNSCEAR
HCL1
(UNSCEAR 2010)
Average for 10
DDM1 countries
(this survey)

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
56
(a)
(b)
Figure 5.10. Average values of the typical effective doses (mSv) obtained in this study,
compared with the earlier data from 10 European countries and UNSCEAR Health Care Level 1
(HCL1) countries; (a) plain radiography, (b) other Top 20 groups.
5.1.2.2 Collective effective doses and per caput effective doses
The overall total collective effective dose of x-ray procedures in European countries is
Group 1: 547500 man Sv, resulting in a mean effective dose of 1,06 mSv per caput.

Group 2: 605000 man Sv, resulting in a mean effective dose of 1,05 mSv per caput.
The overall collective effective doses from x-ray procedures (man Sv) for the main groups
(plain radiography, fluoroscopy, computed tomography and interventional radiology) for each
country are shown in Table 5.15. The variation of the mean effective dose per caput between
the countries is presented in Figure 5.11 and Table 5.14.
The overall collective effective dose is the real reported dose for only six countries (BG, CH,
DE, FI, FR, UK). For the other countries, which could report only Top 20 data, the overall
0
0,5
1
1,5
2
2,5
Chest/Thorax Cervical spine Thoracic spine Lumbar spine
(inc.LSJ)
Mammography Abdomen Pelvis & hip
Average E, mSv
Average of 36 European countries (this survey) Average for 10 DDM1 countries (this survey)
Average for 10 DDM1 countries (EC 2008) UNSCEAR HCL1 (UNSCEAR 2010)
0
5
10
15
20
25
Average E, mSv
Average of 36 European countries (this survey) Average for 10 DDM1 countries (this survey)
Average for 10 DDM1 countries (EC 2008) UNSCEAR HCL1 (UNSCEAR 2010)

European population dose from medical imaging
57
collective effective dose have been obtained from the Top 20 total collective effective dose
by using a correction factor that takes into account the procedures not included in the Top
20. This correction factor (Table 5.17.) has been taken as the average ratio between the
overall total collective effective dose and the Top 20 total collective effective dose (total
overall/total Top 20), for each main group of x-ray procedures (plain radiography,
fluoroscopy, computed tomography and interventional radiology), calculated from the results
for the 6 countries of this survey which have reported both types of total collective effective
doses (BG, CH, DE, FI, FR, UK). In Figure 5.12, the distribution of the correction factors
between the 6 countries has been presented.
In Table 5.17 and Fig. 5.12, two values of the correction factor less than 1.0 appear (plain
radiography for FI and fluoroscopy for CH), which requires an explanation. For FI, the
correction factor is indeed <1 (0,99) and caused by the characteristics of Top 20 method: the
collective effective dose for each Top 20 group was calculated using the typical effective
dose for the most common type of examination in this Top 20 group but using the total
frequency of all types of examination in this Top 20 group (otherwise it would have been the
same as the most comprehensive overall calculation). In this process, the Top 20 collective
effective doe became higher than the value if all types of examinations had been calculated
separately with their own effective dose values, and more than compensated the collective
effective dose from the types of plain radiography examinations outside this Top 20 group
(limbs etc). For CH, the explanation is more simple as CH updated their overall frequency
and collective effective dose values in December 2012, but the Top 20 values remained the
same; new collective effective dose for fluoroscopy was significantly lower than the old value
causing the correction factor to become <1 (0.71). Compared with earlier data, the effect of
this is about 1,5 % on the total effective dose for those countries using the TOP20 correction;
due to the high inherent uncertainty of the correction factor, it was agreed to accept this
additional uncertainty and no change of the values for other countries were implemented.
For LV, no Top 20 data was available; in this case, because the total frequency data was
available and was close to the average values for Europe, the collective effective doses were
estimated as an average of the six countries providing complete data. For plain radiography
at UA, the total collective dose was estimated by applying correction factor 1.12 for
radiography, PLUS adding collective dose for chest fluorography, because of the very high
frequency of this exam (498,8 per 1000 of population), much higher than that of diagnostic
chest radiography (142 per 1000 of population), and also because of its relatively high
contribution to the overall collective effective dose (450 mSv per 1000 of population or about
42 %).
Table 5.16 indicates high variation in the per caput mean effective dose between the
countries. However, no comparison between countries or comments on the differences are
made because only for six countries the values are based on calculations with real reported
overall frequencies and the data for other countries is based on a rough estimation from Top
20 calculations.
It can be seen from Table 5.17 that the Top 20 examinations as defined in RP 154, on the
average contribute about 77 % to the total collective effective dose, which is rather consistent
with that obtained earlier for the 10 European countries of the DDM1 project, i.e. between 70
and 90 %. It can also be seen that the collective effective dose from interventional radiology
is greatly underestimated by use of the Top 20 but, due to relatively small frequency of IR
procedures, the effect on the overall total value is not significant.
The overall per caput effective doses for 10 countries which participated both in the earlier
DDM1 project (EC 2008) and in the present project (DDM2) have been compared in Table
5.18. Because the data for only CH, DE, FR and UK is based on real reported overall
frequencies and the data for other countries is based on a rough estimation from Top 20
calculations, no strict conclusions about the trends can be drawn. However, there seems to
be an upward trend which could be anticipated from the increased frequencies (Table 5.9.),

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
58
in particular for CT examinations, because the typical effective dose for these countries has
not significantly decreased (Table 5.14).
Table 5.15. The overall collective effective doses (man Sv) of x-ray procedures for all 36
countries and for the main groups (plain radiography, fluoroscopy, computed tomography and
interventional radiology). Real data (not estimated from Top 20) given in bold. na: data not
available.
Country Overall Plain
radiography
Fluoroscopy Computed
tomography
Interventional
radiology
AT 7139 1274 1654 4012 199
BE 21304 2861 1943 12797 3703
BG 3076 607 921 1345 202
CH 9092 1444 415 6152 1080
CY 998 60 53 803 82
CZ 10354 2926 713 3743 2972
DE 136839 19947 24131 82618 10143
DK 4953 499 118 4021 316
EE 1885 225 169 1416 75
EL 10439 2039 na 8399 na
ES 50830 9149 4153 34076 3452
FI 2422 389 290 1409 334
FR 79555 18639 7988 47297 5631
HR 2915 540 918 1149 309
HU 17778 6021 3026 7534 1197
IE 2872 290 249 1627 706
IS 541 59 30 425 27
IT 70432 10020 6422 44720 9269
LT 2996 672 944 1200 181
LU 840 97 37 698 8
LV 1847 322 239 1124 163
MD 900 362 326 208 4
ME 601 86 53 414 48
MK 1416 513 489 271 143
MT 274 30 54 155 36
NL 10311 936 914 7517 944
NO 5934 475 460 4398 601
PL 35525 12640 4006 14106 4773
PT 12390 1984 884 8996 527
RO 7167 1188 3673 2216 91
RS 5809 1379 1471 2047 912
SE 7123 772 880 4850 621
SI 1301 251 78 830 142
SK 4150 701 509 2697 242
UA 48670 35674 10166 2585 245
UK 24194 3422 2519 16390 1862
Total 604871 138492 80892 334246 51241

European population dose from medical imaging
59
Table 5.16. The per caput mean effective doses (mSv) of x-ray procedures for all 36
countries and for the main groups (plain radiography, fluoroscopy, computed tomography and
interventional radiology). Real data (not estimated from Top 20) given in bold. na: data not
available.
Country Plain
radiography
Fluoroscopy Computed
tomography
Interventional
radiology
Overall
AT 0,15 0,20 0,48 0,02 0,85
BE 0,26 0,18 1,18 0,34 1,96
BG 0,08 0,12 0,18 0,03 0,41
CH 0,19 0,05 0,80 0,14 1,18
CY 0,06 0,05 0,80 0,08 1,00
CZ 0,28 0,07 0,36 0,28 0,99
DE 0,24 0,30 1,01 0,12 1,67
DK 0,09 0,02 0,72 0,06 0,89
EE 0,17 0,13 1,07 0,06 1,43
EL 0,19 na 0,77 na 0,95
ES 0,19 0,09 0,72 0,07 1,08
FI 0,07 0,05 0,26 0,06 0,45
FR 0,29 0,13 0,74 0,09 1,25
HR 0,13 0,21 0,27 0,07 0,68
HU 0,60 0,30 0,75 0,12 1,78
IE 0,08 0,07 0,47 0,20 0,83
IS 0,18 0,09 1,33 0,09 1,70
IT 0,17 0,11 0,74 0,15 1,16
LT 0,21 0,29 0,37 0,06 0,92
LU 0,21 0,08 1,49 0,02 1,79
LV 0,16 0,12 0,54 0,08 0,89
MD 0,10 0,09 0,06 0,001 0,25
ME 0,13 0,08 0,62 0,07 0,90
MK 0,25 0,24 0,13 0,07 0,70
MT 0,07 0,13 0,38 0,09 0,68
NL 0,06 0,06 0,46 0,06 0,63
NO 0,10 0,10 0,93 0,13 1,25
PL 0,33 0,11 0,37 0,13 0,93
PT 0,19 0,08 0,85 0,05 1,17
RO 0,06 0,17 0,11 0,004 0,34
RS 0,18 0,20 0,27 0,12 0,77
SE 0,08 0,10 0,53 0,07 0,77
SI 0,12 0,04 0,40 0,07 0,63
SK 0,13 0,09 0,50 0,04 0,76
UA 0,78 0,22 0,06 0,01 1,06
UK 0,06 0,04 0,27 0,03 0,39
Mean 0,18 0,13 0,58 0,09 0,98
Max 0,78 0,30 1,49 0,34 1,96
Min 0,06 0,02 0,06 0,001 0,25
Max/min 13,9 14,3 26,4 338,6 7,8

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
60
Figure 5.11. Per caput effective doses for different countries. The relative contributions of
the four main groups (plain radiography, fluoroscopy, computed tomography and
interventional radiology) are also shown (for more details on relative contributions, see Table
5.22). For EL, data for the contributions of fluoroscopy and IR were not available.
Figure 5.12. The distribution of the correction factors between the 6 countries. For the two
values less than 1,0, see the explanation on page 38.
0,00
0,50
1,00
1,50
2,00
2,50
BE
LU
HU
IS
DE
EE
NO
FR
CH
PT
IT
ES
UA
CY
CZ
EL
PL
LT
ME
LV
DK
AT
IE
RS
SE
SK
MK
HR
MT
SI
NL
FI
BG
UK
RO
MD
Per caput effective dose, mSv
Plain radiography Fluoroscopy Computed tomography Interventional radiology
0,0
0,5
1,0
1,5
2,0
2,5
3,0
3,5
4,0
4,5
Total Plain
radiography
Fluoroscopy CT IR
Overall total E/TOP 20 total E
BG
CH
DE
FI
FR
UK
Mean

European population dose from medical imaging
61
Table 5.17. Ratios of total overall/total Top 20 collective effective doses for 6 countries ; the
mean values for the main groups are used as corrections factors for each group to estimate
the overall values from Top 20 values.
Table 5.18. Comparison of the overall per caput effective doses (mSv) between the results
of DDM1 and DDM2 studies, for 10 countries participating in both studies.
The total collective effective doses for all countries for each TOP 20 group are given in Table
5.19., Table 5.20 and Table 5.21.
Country All Top 20 groups
together
Plain radiography Fluoroscopy CT IR
BG 1,27 1,20 1,49 1,11 2,44
CH 1,34 1,06 0,71 1,36 3,49
DE 1,49 1,34 1,41 1,45 3,83
FI 1,30 0,99 1,83 1,20 2,38
FR 1,12 1,09 1,39 1,04
UK 1,27 1,07 1,56 1,22 2,70
1,12 1,40 1,23 2,97
Mean for all Top 20 groups
together 1,30
Top 20 collective effective
dose as a % of overall
collective effective dose 77,0 88,9 71,4 81,4 33,7
Mean for the main groups = Correction factors
Country DDM1
(EC 2008),
mSv
DDM2
(this study),
mSv
Ratio
DDM2/DDM1
BE 1,77 1,96 1,11
DK 0,46 0,89 1,92
FR 0,70 1,25 1,78
DE 1,66 1,67 1,01
LU 1,82 1,79 0,98
NL 0,45 0,63 1,39
NO 1,10 1,25 1,14
SE 0,68 0,77 1,14
CH 1,00 1,18 1,18
UK 0,38 0,39 1,04
Mean 1,00 1,18 1,27

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
62
Table 5.19. The TOP 20 collective effective doses (man Sv) of x-ray procedures for all
countries and for TOP 20 groups 1-7 (na: values not available).
Country Chest/
Thorax
Cervical
spine
Thoracic
spine
Lumbar
spine
(inc.LSJ)
Mammo-
graphy
Abdomen Pelvis &
hip
AT 265 15 88 271 259 48 187
BE 224 37 71 1279 13 234 686
BG 72 30 30 128 21 117 108
CH 90 20 37 619 62 118 412
CY 7,8 0,3 1,7 13 3,5 16 11
CZ 148 129 540 0 795 285 705
DE 674 806 796 6424 1247 1398 3552
DK 46 1,4 17 129 117 14 119
EE 24 9,4 17 66 36 22 27
EL 228 na na 1072 290 na 222
ES 891 173 369 2734 1056 1512 1397
FI 78 8,2 13 114 63 41 77
FR 563 349 222 4414 761 4503 6251
HR 113 5,4 11 78 117 43 111
HU 705 121 737 791 684 673 1642
IE 25 4,6 11 57 43 55 63
IS 7,6 0,4 2,0 12 4,8 15 11
IT 1075 362 577 1470 1134 1064 3226
LT 163 36 55 239 8,7 16 80
LU 11 2,3 5,0 20 15 7,5 26
LV na na na na na na na
MD 99 7,3 67 124 0,8 5,3 18
ME 31 1,8 3,1 16 na 8,1 16
MK 68 25 40 138 5,8 41 138
MT 1,4 1,3 1,9 10 1,0 5,2 5,9
NL 94 3,6 38 185 132 136 243
NO 50 3,3 13 134 51 56 114
PL 2073 631 454 3007 629 722 3720
PT 212 26 146 566 88 340 385
RO 155 22 30 732 23 30 65
RS 60 50 218 559 83 98 158
SE 51 25 74 220 63 82 171
SI 21 5,4 13 89 39 16 40
SK 50 19 14 216 171 79 75
UA 652 832 1810 5674 237 2420 1729
UK 126 17 90 569 1340 530 527

European population dose from medical imaging
63
Table 5.20. The TOP 20 collective effective doses (man Sv) of x-ray procedures for all
countries and for TOP 20 groups 8-12 and 20 (na: values not available).
Country Ba
meal
Ba
enema
Ba
follow-
through
IVU Cardiac
angio-
graphy
PTCA
AT 87 385 60 12 638 67
BE 323 198 42 161 664 1247
BG 162 196 66 57 137 83
CH 109 63 10 19 383 309
CY 6,4 4,4 0,5 10 16,8 28
CZ 85 71 17 134 202 1001
DE 360 1862 103 2245 12510 2650
DK 15 20,5 20 4,4 25 106
EE 15 11,4 17 8,8 68 25
EL na na na na na na
ES 879 1001 375 379 333 1163
FI 0,5 3,0 2,7 4,9 147 140
FR 1319 858 116 336 3112 2750
HR 296 114,0 62 77 106 104
HU 776 413 291 427 254 403
IE 0 26,7 4,8 2,5 144 238
IS 3,6 6,2 3,7 2,4 5,6 9,2
IT 347 1787 na 354 2100 3122
LT 7,8 268 10 136 253,3 61
LU 13 2,5 1,1 3,1 6,9 2,8
LV na na na na na na
MD 118 21,8 63 4,9 25,3 1,2
ME 16 6,0 0,8 6,4 8,8 16,2
MK 213 5,7 69 21 39,8 48
MT 1,0 11,4 4,3 0,6 21,2 12,1
NL 54 139,0 19 9,4 432 318
NO 18 40,2 28 14 228 202
PL 464 159 388 510 1342 1608
PT 234 178 na 3,2 216 177
RO 1923 399 37 225 40 30
RS 304 296 30 77 345 307
SE 39 168 165 61 196 209
SI 2,9 11,2 5,8 2,4 33 48
SK 21 35 105 36 166 82
UA 4029 1358 1210 348 319 83
UK 76 513 58 177 789 690

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
64
Table 5.21. The TOP 20 collective effective doses (man Sv) of x-ray procedures for all
countries and for TOP 20 groups 13-19 (na: values not available, nc: not counted, included in
other groups).
The relative overall collective effective doses (percentage of the collective effective dose of
all x-ray examinations), for the main groups of plain radiography, fluoroscopy, CT and IR, are
shown in Table 5.22. and Figure 5.13. It can be seen that computed tomography yields by far
the highest contribution, on the average 57,0 % (range 5,31 – 83,1 %), to the population
dose in most countries, while the relative contributions of all main groups vary greatly
between the countries. The relative contributions of the main groups plain radiography,
fluoroscopy, CT and IR are further illustrated in Figure 5.14 and Figure 5.15.
Country CT
head
CT
neck
CT
chest
CT
spine
CT
abdomen
CT
pelvis
CT
trunk
AT 480 16 681 200 1413 353 122
BE 702 29 1358 3867 4460 nc nc
BG 161 nc 175 169 508 175 24
CH 258 126 749 280 2097 195 827
CY 66 9,5 58 88 159 53 220
CZ 537 0 515 321 1169 505 0
DE 3988 417 8448 11047 24906 673 7616
DK 271 60 910 69 1655 154 154
EE 82 nc nc nc nc nc 1071
EL 453 186 2183 677 3115 na 223
ES 2085 406 3873 4379 7126 2981 6888
FI 183 18 215 43 272 124 316
FR 3468 761 10372 8343 20467 64 2104
HR 179 8,2 94 54 200 26 374
HU 383 37 1546 1205 2820 142 nc
IE 134 6,1 209 0 423 0 552
IS 40 12 57 50 180,5 6,7 nc
IT 4696 348 10087 4611 15580 1082 na
LT 157 18 94 230 406 71 nc
LU 61 32 0 232 226 0 17
LV na na na na na na na
MD 3,7 0,3 45 49 52 4,5 15
ME 20 28 na na 240 50 0
MK 49 6,1 34 15 64 7,7 45
MT 9,2 0,3 22 na 64 23 6,9
NL 419 nc 1537 166 3865 132 nc
NO 262 90 554 128 1687 858 nc
PL 2215 na 2404 1834 5029 na na
PT 954 34 1095 2085 1487 597 1071
RO 1197 47 138 58 268 96 0
RS 334 65 315 99 474 197 182
SE 674 99 698 64 2305 47 60
SI 142 8,6 89 64 273 11 89
SK 337 28 305 201 700 235 389
UA 370 14 500 154 890 113 63
UK 1608 241 2069 201 1494 556 7315

European population dose from medical imaging
65
In the above analysis of the overall collective effective dose, dental x-ray procedures are
included in the main group plain radiography. While the frequency of dental x-ray procedures
can be very high (See Table 5.2 in Section 5.1.1), their contribution to the overall population
dose from plain radiography is typically only 2-4 % as shown in Table 5.23.
Table 5.22. Relative contributions of the main groups (plain radiography, fluoroscopy, CT
and IR) to the overall collective effective dose from all x-ray examinations. na: data not
available.
Country Plain
radiography
Fluoroscopy Computed
tomography
Interventional
radiology
AT 17,8 23,2 56,2 2,8
BE 13,4 9,1 60,1 17,4
BG 19,7 29,9 43,7 6,6
CH 15,9 4,6 67,7 11,9
CY 6,0 5,3 80,4 8,2
CZ 28,3 6,9 36,2 28,7
DE 14,6 17,6 60,4 7,4
DK 10,1 2,4 81,2 6,4
EE 12,0 8,9 75,1 4,0
EL 19,5 na 80,5 na
ES 18,0 8,2 67,0 6,8
FI 16,1 12,0 58,2 13,8
FR 23,4 10,0 59,5 7,1
HR 18,5 31,5 39,4 10,6
HU 33,9 17,0 42,4 6,7
IE 10,1 8,7 56,6 24,6
IS 10,9 5,6 78,5 5,0
IT 14,2 9,1 63,5 13,2
LT 22,4 31,5 40,1 6,0
LU 11,6 4,4 83,1 1,0
LV 17,4 12,9 60,9 8,8
MD 40,3 36,2 23,1 0,4
ME 14,3 8,8 68,9 8,0
MK 36,3 34,5 19,1 10,1
MT 10,9 19,6 56,3 13,1
NL 9,1 8,9 72,9 9,2
NO 8,0 7,8 74,1 10,1
PL 35,6 11,3 39,7 13,4
PT 16,0 7,1 72,6 4,3
RO 16,6 51,2 30,9 1,3
RS 23,7 25,3 35,2 15,7
SE 10,8 12,4 68,1 8,7
SI 19,3 6,0 63,8 10,9
SK 16,9 12,3 65,0 5,8
UA 73,3 20,9 5,3 0,5
UK 14,1 10,4 67,7 7,7
MAX 73,3 51,2 83,1 28,7
MIN 6,0 2,4 5,3 0,4

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
66
Figure 5.13. The relative collective effective doses (% of the collective effective dose of all x-
ray examinations), for the main groups of plain radiography, fluoroscopy, CT and IR. For EL,
data for fluoroscopy and IR were not available.
Figure 5.14. Relative contributions of the four main groups to the overall collective effective
dose in Group 1 countries (EU Member States + CH, IS, NO).
0 %
10 %
20 %
30 %
40 %
50 %
60 %
70 %
80 %
90 %
100 %
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Relative contribution to the overall
collective effective dose, %
Plain radiography Fluoroscopy Computed tomography Interventional radiology
18 %
13 %

60 %
9 % Plain radiography
Fluoroscopy
Computed
tomography
Interventional
radiology

European population dose from medical imaging
67
Figure 5.15. Relative contributions of the four main groups to the overall collective effective
dose in Group 2 countries (All countries).
Table 5.23. Contribution of dental x-ray procedures to the overall collective effective dose
from plain radiography and from all x-ray procedures
5.2 Nuclear Medicine procedures
5.2.1 Frequencies
The total frequency of diagnostic NM procedures in the European countries is
Group 1 (30 countries): 7,9 million, or 15 examinations per 1000 of population, or 0,015
examinations per caput.
Group 2 (35 countries): 8,1 million, or 14 examinations per 1000 of population, or 0,014
examinations per caput.
The total frequencies are somewhat lower than the HCL 1 countries mean rate of 19 per
1000 of population for 1997-2007, according to UNSCEAR 2008 report. The distribution of
the total number per 1000 of population for different countries is shown in Figure 5.16, Figure
5.17, Figure 5.18a,b and 5.19. The variation of the total number of NM examinations
between the countries is high, ranging from about 0,5 to about 38 per 1000 of population.
The relative annual frequencies of the main groups are shown in Fig 5.20. The distribution
23 %
13 %
55 %
9 % Plain radiography
Fluoroscopy
Computed
tomography
Interventional
radiology
Country Dental procedures as a %
of total plain radiography
Dental procedures as a %
of total x-ray procedures
BG 1,5 0,3
CH 4,2 0,7
DE 2,0 0,3
FI 4,2 0,7
FR 1,9 0,4
UK 3,2 0,4
Mean 2,8 0,5

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
68
per million of population according to the isotope used is shown in Table 5.24. and Table
5.25.
Figure 5.16. Annual frequencies of NM examinations per 1000 of population, according to
the isotope used (BE: No data available).
Figure 5.17 Annual frequencies of NM examinations per 1000 of population, according to
the isotope used but procedures with Tc-99m removed (BE: no data available)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
LU
DE
EL
FR
DK
PT
AT
SI
HU
IT
ES
NL
HR
CH
MT
CZ
UK
SE
NO
IE
SK
MD
CY
IS
FI
LV
LT
PL
RS
ME
MK
EE
BG
UA
RO
BE
Frequency per 1000 pf population
NM procedures with Tc-99m NM procedures with Tl-201 NM procedures with I-131
NM procedures with I-123 NM procedures with Ga-67 NM procedures with In-111
NM procedures with F-18 NM procedures with O-15 NM procedures with other isotopes
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
LU
DE
EL
FR
DK
PT
AT
SI
HU
IT
ES
NL
HR
CH
MT
CZ
UK
SE
NO
IE
SK
MD
CY
IS
FI
LV
LT
PL
RS
ME
MK
EE
BG
UA
RO
BE
Frequency per 1000 of population
NM procedures with Tl-201 NM procedures with I-131 NM procedures with I-123
NM procedures with Ga-67 NM procedures with In-111 NM procedures with F-18
NM procedures with O-15 NM procedures with other isotopes

European population dose from medical imaging
69
Figure 5.18a. Annual frequencies of NM examinations per 1000 of population, according to
the main groups (one or more types of examinations of the same organ, the same target or
closely similar objectives grouped together) (BE: No data available).
Figure 5.18b. Annual frequencies of NM examinations per 1000 of population, for tumor
imaging with PET and PET associated with a diagnostic CT.
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
LU DE EL FR DK PT AT SI HU IT ES NL HR CH MT CZ UK SE NO IE SK MD CY IS FI LV LT PL SP ME MK EE BG UA RO BE
Frequency per 1000 of population
Bone imaging (99mTc) Thyroid total (incl para-thyroid) Heart total Renal total
Lung perfusion Tumor imaging PET & PET/CT Infection/inflam-mation total Parkin-sonism total
Somato-statin receptors imaging CBF total Miscellaneous total
0
1
2
3
4
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
SE
SI
SK
SP
UA
UK
Frequencies per 1000 of population
Tumor imaging PET Tumor imaging PET & diagnostic CT Tumor imaging PET & PET/CT total

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
70
Figure 5.19. Relative annual frequencies of NM examinations according to the main groups
(BE: No data available).
0 %
10 %
20 %
30 %
40 %
50 %
60 %
70 %
80 %
90 %
100 %
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
SE
SI
SK
SP
UA
UK
Relative frequencies (%)
Bone imaging Tumor imaging PET & PET/CT Thyroid total
Heart total Lung perfusion Renal total
Infection/inflammation total Parkinsonism total Somatostatin receptors imaging
CBF total Miscellaneous total

European population dose from medical imaging
71
Table 5.24. Annual frequencies of diagnostic NM examinations in European countries, per
million of population, according to the isotope used (na: not available, nc: not counted,
included in other groups).
Country NM
procedures
with Tc-99m
NM
procedures
with Tl-201
NM
procedures
with I-131
NM
procedures
with I-123
NM
procedures
with Ga-67
NM
procedures
with In-111
NM
procedures
with F-18
NM
procedures
with O-15
NM
procedures
with other
isotopes
AT 13060 881 0 0 0 0 1369 0 0
BE na na na na na na na na 0
BG 2163 0 89 14 0 0 342 0 0
CH 6390 286 35 105 na 71 2555 na 0
CY 5631 286 7 0 6 8 0 0 0
CZ 8995 24 nc nc 0 28 0 nc 0
DE 31385 471 na 379 1 na 987 24 2445
DK 14576 0 91 204 0 100 3963 78 0
EE 2389 0 73 60 0 0 403 0 0
EL 16927 5496 443 na 135 47 416 0 0
ES 11171 0 158 340 219 128 1360 0 0
FI 4566 168 101 199 0 32 543 25 0
FR 15624 1635 38 492 53 74 1785 0 0
HR 7656 92 193 143 79 23 1529 0 0
HU 13649 46 64 1 13 30 1127 0 0
IE 6693 0 92 124 0 46 0 0 0
IS 5170 0 128 354 81 25 0 0 0
IT 11115 79 397 490 80 61 2206 na 0
LT 4795 0 48 0 0 0 0 0 0
LU 30511 28 468 1336 32 1543 3655 0 0
LV 4979 0 627 9 0 0 0 0 0
MD 3999 0 2247 0 0 0 0 0 0
ME 3646 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
MK 3354 0 24 0 0 0 0 0 0
MT 9242 0 126 12 40 10 0 0 0
NL 10362 11 3 481 0 0 798 nc 0
NO 6301 0 na 149 2 80 602 0 0
PL 2981 0 1426 0 2 0 301 0 0
PT 16576 72 120 62 66 26 1571 0 0
RO 436 0 28 63 0 0 0 0 0
RS 4240 0 160 60 0 40 0 0 0
SE 6965 1 2 112 0 103 899 0 0
SI 12800 122 123 244 7 129 1630 0 0
SK 5507 na na 29 3 35 726 na 0
UA 1393 0 826 0 0 0 0 0 0
UK 7966 264 31 37 15 23 182 0 0

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
72
Table 5.25. Annual frequencies of NM examinations in European countries, per million of
population, according to the main groups (one or more examinations of the same organ, the
same target or closely similar objectives grouped together). (na: not available, nc: not counted,
included in other groups).
Frequency data of NM procedures have been grouped into broader categories to enable
comparison between DDM2 and DDM1 data and with similar data from UNSCEAR Health
Care Level 1 (HCL1; UNSCEAR 2008) (Table 5.26a and 5.26b). On the average, the
frequencies of the NM examinations in eight DDM1 countries seem to have decreased from
the earlier study (DDM1), while these are still a little higher than in the UNSCEAR HCL1
countries. However, the average for all European countries in this study is lower than that for
the HCL1 countries.
Country Bone
imaging
(99mTc)
Myocardial
perfusion
total (no
PET)
Myocardial
perfusion
total (incl
PET)
Tumor
imaging PET
& PET/CT
Thyroid
total (incl
para-
thyroid)
MUGA
total
Heart
total
Lung
perfusion
Renal
total
Infection/
inflam-
mation
total
Parkin-
sonism
total
Somato-
statin
receptors
imaging
CBF
total
Miscella-
neous total
AT 3393 3512 3512 1369 4167 0 3512 1333 1536 0 0 0 0 0
BE na na na na na na na na na na na na na na
BG 1326 48 48 342 472 2 50 206 124 0 14 0 5 69
CH 3519 2091 2097 2549 604 na 2097 338 232 na na 71 31 0
CY 1637 2345 2345 0 1102 18 2363 174 621 32 0 8 0 0
CZ 4892 416 416 nc 91 3 419 3527 21 67 nc 28 2 0
DE 9808 4864 4897 978 14685 73 4970 724 1292 150 226 na 115 2744
DK 3430 2406 2406 3963 2556 124 2530 965 3842 103 196 100 153 1174
EE 751 780 782 402 412 0 782 20 270 27 44 0 6 212
EL 5387 12324 12324 416 2692 314 12638 392 1758 135 na 47 na 0
ES 5591 2193 2193 1360 1402 362 2554 418 778 448 340 128 356 0
FI 2378 1263 1412 419 170 194 1606 394 332 65 199 32 39 0
FR 7755 6533 6533 1785 1580 683 7216 676 289 79 75 74 172 0
HR 2547 1163 1163 1529 2693 39 1201 368 970 138 34 23 74 138
HU 5649 3016 3016 1127 2901 304 3320 371 559 34 1 30 115 835
IE 5141 257 257 0 461 0 257 358 333 0 95 46 16 0
IS 3175 241 241 0 426 50 291 276 410 122 225 25 225 695
IT 4627 3493 3495 2204 2006 120 3615 409 532 177 na 61 386 410
LT 1680 563 563 0 719 na 563 108 1729 0 0 0 44 0
LU 13702 4145 4145 3655 9647 132 4277 1149 513 394 400 1543 189 2104
LV 2520 334 334 0 2023 0 334 26 428 0 9 0 0 276
MD 1053 0 0 0 538 0 0 58 675 0 0 0 0 3921
ME 1324 0 0 0 1360 66 66 61 733 0 0 0 0 103
MK 1016 529 529 0 947 1 531 89 779 0 0 0 15 0
MT 2486 4301 4301 0 632 232 4533 598 748 40 0 10 123 259
NL 5887 2330 2330 798 503 904 3234 352 757 26 93 0 6 0
NO 3128 915 1466 50 728 167 1634 187 851 19 149 80 309 0
PL 1105 461 462 294 1929 11 473 90 460 15 0 0 24 320
PT 4346 8699 8699 1571 1086 626 9326 230 1103 109 55 26 54 588
RO 286 46 46 0 168 0 46 12 14 0 0 0 1 0
SE 2236 2547 2547 899 676 82 2629 607 595 25 95 103 218 0
SI 3679 4264 4278 1399 2547 353 4631 740 603 179 109 129 69 970
SK 2743 449 449 726 632 na 449 795 829 46 29 35 17 0
SP 1467 373 373 0 1287 40 413 187 1040 27 27 40 13 0
UA 1006 0 0 0 247 0 0 0 161 11 0 0 0 793
UK 3272 1696 1696 182 294 163 1859 1556 1061 165 26 23 81 0

European population dose from medical imaging
73
Table 5.26 a. Average frequencies per 1000 of population of this study, for the European
countries and DDM1 countries, compared with similar data from an earlier DDM1 study and
UNSCEAR Health Care Level 1 (HCL1; UNSCEAR 2008) countries (N is the number of countries
that reported data)
Table 5.26b. Comparison of frequency data between DDM1 and DDM2 studies, for eight
DDM1 countries and for a few NM examination groups available from the DDM1 report (EC,
2008).
5.2.2 Effective doses
5.2.2.1 Typical effective doses
The administered mean activities for different diagnostic NM examination in European
countries are presented in Table 5.27 to Table 5.30. The variation of the mean activities
between European countries for selected NM examinations is given in graphs in Annex 5. In
Table 5.28 there are a few very low values (for thyroid imaging and MUGA) compared with
the rest of the data. The values have been checked to be the reported values, while no
explanation has been available from the country level.e comparison of mean activities
between DDM1 and DDM2 studies, for a few examinations (where data from DDM1 was
available) in eight DDM1 countries, is shown in Table 5.31. It can be seen that the mean
activities have not changed considerably since the DDM1 study (1998-2005).
The typical effective doses for the NM examinations were calculated from the mean activities
using the conversion factors shown in Table 5.32. Most of the conversion factors are from
ICRP 53 and 80 and some new and updated ones are from ICRP 106.
Two examples of the variation of the typical effective doses per NM procedure in European
countries are shown in Figure 5.20 and Figure 5.21. The average typical effective doses per
NM procedure are compared with UNSCEAR HCL1 countries in Table 5.33. The average
typical effective doses in this survey seem generally lower than that in the UNSCEAR data
for HCL1 countries. No clear explanation for this can be given, but the UNSCEAR data is
NM procedure Average frequencies
per 1000 of population
for European countries
(this survey)
Average frequencies
per 1000 of population
for DDM1 countries
(N=8) (this survey)
Average frequencies
per 1000 of population
for DDM1 countries
(N=8) (1998-2005)
Average frequencies
per 1000 of population
for UNSCEAR HCL I
countries (1997-2007)
Bone scan (Tc99m) 3,5 (N=35) 5,9 9 5,5 (N=27)
Heart total 2,6 (N=33) 3,0 4 2,6 (N=27)
Lung perfusion (Tc99m) 0,5 (N=35) 0,7 2 0,9 (N=25)
Thyroid total 1,8 (N=35) 3,9 5 3,6 (N=27)
Renal total 0,8 (N=35) 0,8 2 1,1 (N=26)
Brain 0,1 (N=28) 0,5 (N=21)
PET 0,4 (N=17) 0,5 (N=15)
PET & diagnostic CT 0,4 (N=15) 0,4 (N=9)
Total (for the five first
procedures) 9,2 14,2 22,0 13,7
DDM1 DDM2 DDM1 DDM2 DDM1 DDM2 DDM1 DDM2 DDM1 DDM2
BE 25 na 10 na 10 na 5 na 2 na
CH 5 4 3 2 1 0,6 1 0,3 1 0,2
DE 11 10 5 5 17 15 3 0,7 3 1
LU 13 14 6 4 11 10 2 1 1 0,5
NL 6 6 4 3 1 0,5 3 0,4 1 0,8
NO 4 3 3 2 1 0,7 1 0,2 1 0,9
SE 3 2 2 3 1 0,7 1 0,6 2 0,6
UK 3 3 2 2 0,3 0,3 3 2 2 1
Country Bone scan (Tc99m) Heart total Thyroid total Lung perfusion
(Tc099m)
Renal total

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
74
older and worldwide, while the data from this survey is newer and based on European
countries only.
Table 5.27. Administered mean activities (MBq) for different NM examination in European
countries. (na: data not available).
Tc-99m Tl-201 Tc-99m Tc-99m Tc-99m Tc-99m F-18 O-15
Country Bone
imaging
Myocardial
perfusion
(Chloride)
Myocardial
perfusion, rest
(Tetrofosmin)
Myocardial
perfusion,
exercise
(Tetrofosmin)
Myocardial
perfusion,
rest (MIBI)
Myocardial
perfusion,
exercise
(MIBI)
Myocardial
perfusion
(PET) (FDG)
Myocardial
perfusion
(PET) (H2O)
AT 740 110 na 1200 na na na na
BE na na na na na na na na
BG 605 na na na 703 555 185 na
CH 710 110 850 430 690 610 240 na
CY 666 74 814 333 na na na na
CZ 766 137 795 823 830 839 na na
DE 600 43 377 511 418 485 240 815
DK 679 na na na na na na na
EE 550 na 740 250 740 400 350 na
EL 679 116 601 295 717 430 na na
ES 771 na 742 701 804 718 na na
FI 642 111 687 317 891 274 354 900
FR 668 130 na na 340 710 na na
HR 592 75 572 500 608 636 na na
HU 740 74 450 740 450 740 na na
IE 619 na na na na na na na
IS 770 na na na 833 807 na na
IT 741 104 630 na 668 684 397 na
LT 542 na na na na na na na
LU 740 111 740 740 740 740 na na
LV 600 na 700 300 na na na na
MD 550 na na na na na na na
ME 660 na na na na na na na
MK 740 na 250 750 555 955 na na
MT 550 na na na 480 350 na na
NL 623 108 576 1108 633 1060 na na
NO 697 na 710 470 480 506 331 na
PL 740 na na na 1000 1000 300 na
PT 724 106 588 665 479 520 185 na
RO 669 na 735 na na na na na
RS 680 na na na 850 880 na na
SE 518 81 602 478 580 505 na na
SI 683 111 591 580 582 583 300 na
SK 759 na na 393 na na na na
UA 550 na na na na na na na
UK 598 75 406 na 414 na 190 na
MEAN 662 99 626 579 645 652 279 858
MAX 771 137 850 1200 1000 1060 397 900
MIN 518 43 250 250 340 274 185 815

European population dose from medical imaging
75
Table 5.28. Administered mean activities (MBq) for different NM examination in European
countries (na: data not available).
F-18 F-18 I-131 Tc-99m I-123 Tc-99m Tc-99m
Country Tumor
imaging
(PET)
Tumor imaging
(PET) +
Diagnostic CT
Thyroid
metastases (after
ablation, uptake
0%)
Thyroid imaging
(oral
administration,
no blocking)
Thyroid
imaging
(thyroid
uptake 35%)
MUGA, cardiac
blood pool, cardiac
blood flow
(equilibrium)
MUGA, cardiac blood
pool, cardiac blood
flow (equilibrium)(Tc-
99m)
AT 400 400 370 110 20 na 740
BE na na na na na na na
BG 337 370 129 93 na na 3
CH 380 340 4 90 11 na na
CY na na 110 148 na na 592
CZ na na na na na na 800
DE 309 na na 69 14 na 710
DK 332 na 108 157 184 na 690
EE 300 240 185 70 na na na
EL 370 na 170 na na na 702
ES na 336 178 202 na na 787
FI 360 363 243 141 na 502 746
FR na 352 40 153 8 na 749
HR na na 185 117 2 384 802
HU 370 370 100 140 na na 740
IE na na 126 101 185 na na
IS na na 68 1358 2 na 925
IT 433 370 55 126 81 739 797
LT na na 145 104 na na na
LU na 296 111 111 20 na 740
LV na na na na na na na
MD na na na na na na na
ME na na na 150 na na 610
MK na na 185 74 na na 400
MT na na 185 180 na na 550
NL 249 na 3 116 18 740 696
NO na 331 na 135 5 na 804
PL 400 na 130 80 na na 740
PT 327 348 97 179 5 na 706
RO na na 16 131 3 na na
RS na 370 115 120 2 na 860
SE 289 289 119 110 76 504 628
SI 370 370 148 97 15 740 923
SK 368 368 na 105 na na na
UA na na 75 70 na na na
UK 370 na 169 75 18 350 665
MEAN 351 345 127 158 37 566 696
MAX 433 400 370 1358 185 740 925
MIN 249 240 3 69 2 350 3

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
76
Table 5.29. Administered mean activities (MBq) for different NM examination in European
countries. (na: data not available).
I-123 I-123 Tc-99m In-111 Tc-99m Tc-99m Tc-99m
Country Dopamine
transporter
imaging
(parkinsonism)(β-
CIT)
Dopamine
transporter imaging
(parkinsonism)(Ioflu
pane)
Lung
perfusion
Neuroendocrine
tumors/somatost
atin receptors
imaging
Renal
imaging
(DMSA)
Renal
imaging
(MAG 3)
Renal
imaging
(DTPA)
AT 185 185 150 200 110 110 185
BE na na na na na na na
BG na 185 150 na 117 185 227
CH na na 190 170 80 110 na
CY na na 148 148 111 111 185
CZ na na 219 155 131 na na

DE na 180 150 na 85 100 85
DK na 197 171 216 46 66 217
EE na 185 100 na 75 30 150
EL na na 175 155 157 na 368
ES na 186 208 156 136 158 220
FI 176 172 140 134 103 111 299
FR na 156 202 162 112 153 135
HR na 122 149 240 105 120 142
HU na 185 250 222 140 140 140
IE na 175 118 173 na 104 221
IS 167 na 281 222 96 188 na
IT na na 176 149 130 133 187
LT na na na na na 147 85
LU na 185 288 185 123 150 111
LV na 146 100 na na na 150
MD na na 90 na 160 na 110
ME na na 90 na 930 na 170
MK na na 185 na 185 111 265
MT na na 100 185 100 na 200
NL 184 184 75 na 97 67 na
NO 185 184 219 138 61 98 77
PL na na na na 185 na 200
PT na 183 170 166 119 161 133
RO na na 127 na na 100 241
RS na 130 115 740 130 115 220
SE 171 171 112 161 57 87 113
SI na 121 143 429 91 116 185
SK na 185 110 170 103 na 120
UA na na 200 na 150 na na
UK na 180 89 151 77 90 210
MEAN 178 171 157 210 139 118 178
MAX 185 197 288 740 930 188 368
MIN 167 121 75 134 46 30 77

European population dose from medical imaging
77
Table 5.30. Administered mean activities (MBq) for different NM examination in European
countries. (na: data not available).
Tc-99m Tc-99m Tc-99m Ga-67 Tc-99m Tc-99m
Country Parathyroid
imaging
(MIBI)
Cerebral
blood flow
(HMPAO,
Ceretec)
Cerebral
blood
flow
(ECD)
Infection/
inflammation
imaging (Gallium
citrate)
Infection/
inflammation
imaging (Tc-labbelled
white blood cells)
Infection/
inflammation
imaging
(Monoclonal
antibody)
AT 740 740 na 185 740 na
BE na na na na na na
BG 435 666 na na na na
CH 620 na 710 na na na
CY 666 na na 111 na 592
CZ 629 698 na na na 714
DE 540 551 560 na 700 720
DK 723 843 na na 362 na
EE 550 700 450 na na 740
EL na na na 173 na na
ES 697 734 na 230 372 na
FI 747 792 557 na 169 914
FR 660 760 na 128 882 na
HR 536 740 850 72 740 555
HU 740 740 na 220 200 na
IE na 665 na na na na
IS na 1243 na 218 244 na
IT 611 209 266 72 562 na
LT 347 651 555 na na na
LU 466 na 740 111 555 740
LV 450 na na na na na
MD na na na na na na
ME 680 na na na na na
MK 740 740 na na na na
MT 180 550 na 250 na na
NL 542 740 na na 485 na
NO 753 749 876 113 264 na
PL 750 740 na 400 na 750
PT 732 707 741 256 281 1051
RO 400 518 na na na na
RS 630 925 na na 740 740
SE 586 825 763 na 198 665
SI 624 700 657 177 483 553
SK 600 600 na 150 400 na
UA na na na na 277 na
UK 576 483 500 136 200 691
MEAN 598 704 633 177 443 725
MAX 753 1243 876 400 882 1051
MIN 180 209 266 72 169 553

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
78
Table 5.31. Comparison of mean activities per examination between DDM1 and DDM2, for 8
DDM1 countries.
Country
DDM1 DDM2 DDM1 DDM2 DDM1 DDM2 DDM1 DDM2
BE 720 na 130 na 190 na 160 na
CH 720 710 96 90 190 190 95 110
DE 616 600 51 69 142 150 81 100
LU na 740 na 111 na 288 na 150
NL 550 623 100 116 100 75 75 67
NO 689 697 141 135 194 219 86 98
SE 505 518 120 110 120 112 80 87
UK 598 598 75 75 89 89 89 90
Bone scan (Tc99m) Thyroid (Tc99m) Lung (MAA) Kidney (MAG3)

European population dose from medical imaging
79
Table 5.32. Conversion factors to calculate mean effective dose from the mean activity.
Procedure Isotope Conversion factor
mSv/MBq
Reference
Bone imaging Tc-99m 0,0057 ICRP 53/80
Myocardial perfusion (Chloride) Tl-201 0,14 ICRP 106
Myocardial perfusion, rest (Tetrofosmin) Tc-99m 0,0069 ICRP 106 Myocardial perfusion, exercise
(Tetrofosmin) Tc-99m 0,0069 ICRP 106
Myocardial perfusion, rest (MIBI) Tc-99m 0,009 ICRP 53/80
Myocardial perfusion, exercise (MIBI) Tc-99m 0,0079 ICRP 53/80
Myocardial perfusion (PET) (FDG) F-18 0,019 ICRP 106
Myocardial perfusion (PET) (H2O) O-15 0,0011 ICRP 106
Tumor imaging (PET) F-18 0,019 ICRP 106
Tumor imaging (PET) + Diagnostic CT F-18 0,019 ICRP 106
Thyroid metastases (after ablation, I-131 0,061 ICRP 53/80
Thyroid imaging (oral administration, no
blocking) Tc-99m 0,013 ICRP 53/80
Thyroid imaging (thyroid uptake 35%) I-123 0,22 ICRP 106 MUGA, cardiac blood pool, cardiac blood
flow (equilibrium) Tc-99m 0,0049 ICRP 53/80
MUGA, cardiac blood pool, cardiac blood Tc-99m 0,007 ICRP 53/80
Dopamine transporter imaging
(parkinsonism)(β-CIT) I-123 0,05 ICRP 106
Dopamine transporter imaging
(parkinsonism)(Ioflupane) I-123 0,024
Manufacturer's
specification
Lung perfusion Tc-99m 0,011 ICRP 53/80
Neuroendocrine tumors/somatostatin
receptors imaging In-111 0,054 ICRP 106
Renal imaging (DMSA) Tc-99m 0,0088 ICRP 53/80
Renal imaging (MAG 3) Tc-99m 0,007 ICRP 53/80
Renal imaging (DTPA) Tc-99m 0,0049 ICRP 53/80
Parathyroid imaging (MIBI) Tc-99m 0,009 ICRP 53/80
Cerebral blood flow (HMPAO, Ceretec) Tc-99m 0,0093 ICRP 53/80
Cerebral blood flow (ECD) Tc-99m 0,0077 ICRP 106
Infection/inflammation imaging
(Gallium citrate) Ga-67 0,1 ICRP 53/80
Infection/inflammation imaging (Tc-
labbelled white blood cells) Tc-99m 0,011 ICRP 53/80
Infection/inflammation imaging
(Monoclonal antibody) Tc-99m 0,0098 ICRP 106

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
80
Table 5.33. Average typical effective dose per diagnostic NM procedure (mSv) in the
European countries of this study, compared with similar data from UNSCEAR Health Care
Level 1 (HCL1; UNSCEAR 2008) countries.
NM procedure
Average effective dose
(mSv) of European
countries (this survey)
Average effective dose
(mSv) of UNSCEAR HCL I
countries (1997-2007)
Bone scan (Tc-99m) 3,8 (max/min:1,5) 4,74
Myocardial perfusion (Tl-201 chloride) 13,8 (max/min:3,2) 40,7
Myocardial perfusion, rest (Tc-99m
Tetrofosmin)
4,1 (max/min:3,4)
Myocardial perfusion, exercise (Tc-99m
Tetrofosmin)
3,8 (max/min:4,8)
Myocardial perfusion, rest (Tc-99m
MIBI)
5,5 (max/min:3,5)
Myocardial perfusion, exercise (Tc-99m
MIBI)
4,8 (max/min:3,9)
Heart Total (Tc-99m) 7,97
PET Myocardial perfusion (F-18 FDG) 5,3 (max/min:2,1)
PET Myocardial perfusion (O-15 H2O) 0,8 (max/min:1,1)
PET Tumor imaging (F-18 FDG) 6,7 (max/min:1,7)
PET 6,42
PET & diagnostic CT 6,5 (max/min:1,7) 7,88
Lung perfusion (Tc-99m) 1,8 (max/min:4,9) 3,52
Thyroid scan (Tc-99m) 2,0 (max/min:19,7) 3,75
Thyroid scan (I-131) 7,8 (max/min:123)
Thyroid scan (I-123) 8,2 (max/min:92,5)
Thyroid scan (I-131/ I-123) 30,5
Renal scan (Tc-99m DMSA) 1,2 (max/min:20,2)
Renal scan (Tc-99m MAG3) 0,8 (max/min:6,3)
Renal scan (Tc-99m DTPA) 0,9 (max/min:4,8)
Renal Total 1,89
CBF (Tc-99m HMPAO, Ceretec) 6,5 (max/min:5,9)
CBF (Tc-99m ECD) 4,9 (max/min:3.3)
Brain 6,09

European population dose from medical imaging
81
Figure 5.20. Typical effective doses (mSv) in various countries for bone imaging with Tc-
99m.
Figure 5.21. Typical effective doses (mSv) in various countries for myocardial perfusion (Tl-
201 Chloride).
5.2.2.2 Collective effective doses
The total collective effective dose of diagnostic NM procedures in European countries is
Group 1: 30700 man Sv, resulting in a mean effective dose of 0,060 mSv per caput.
Group 2: 31100 man Sv, resulting in a mean effective dose of 0,054 mSv per caput.
The variation in the total collective effective dose per 1000 of population between the
countries, for the groups of diagnostic NM examinations, is presented in Figure 5.22.
0
0,5
1
1,5
2
2,5
3
3,5
4
4,5
AT BE BG CH CY CZ DE DK EE EL ES FI FR HR HU IE IS IT LT LU LV MD ME MK MT NL NO PL PT RO SE SI SK SP UA UK
Typical effective dose (mSv)
Bone imaging
0
5
10
15
20
AT BE BG CH CY CZ DE DK EE EL ES FI FR HR HU IE IS IT LT LU LV MD ME MK MT NL NO PL PT RO SE SI SK SP UA UK
Typical effective dose (mSv)
Axis Title
Myocardial perfusion (Tl-201 Chloride)

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
82
Figure 5.22. Total collective effective dose per 1000 of population, for the groups of NM
examinations (one or more examinations of the same organ, the same target or closely similar
objectives grouped together).
The average annual effective dose per head of population (per caput) was calculated for
each country from the frequency, the size of the population and the effective dose per
examination. The total average annual effective dose per caput ranges from 0,002 mSv in
RO to 0,162 mSv in EL. Although large national differences in the average population dose
from NM procedures have been observed, the 7 procedures (Top 7) shown in Table 5.34
have been identified as being among the highest contributors to the collective effective dose
in all DDM2 countries.
The relative contribution of NM procedures (e.g. bone imaging) to the total average annual
effective dose per caput (mSv) was calculated for each country and then min, max and
median were estimated for the NM procedures. They are presented in the right column of
Table 5.34 The newly proposed NM Top 7 has been based on those values. That is to say
(a) In the 3rd column appear only the NM procedures for which median contribution is higher
than 1,5 % and (b) in an effort to keep uncertainties as low as possible, it seems better to
avoid grouping together heart or thyroid procedures performed with different radioisotopes
(N.b. lung perfusion could also be excluded as the median is only 1,6 %, but the max 24,9 %
is quite similar to the tumor imaging PET max value 24,6 %).
In Table 5.35average annual effective dose per caput per NM procedure (mSv) of the
European countries of this study are compared with similar data from DDM1 countries. In
Table 5.36 the annual effective dose per caput (mSv), for eight DDM1 countries and for a few
examination groups are compared with the earlier data from DDM1 study. There seems to be
not much difference between the DDM1 countries and all countries in the present (DDM2)
survey of data, while on the average the annual per caput effective dose in DDM1 countries
seem to be reduced from the time of the DDM1 survey.
0
50
100
150
200
EL
LU
FR
DE
PT
IT
DK
AT
ES
HU
SI
PL
CH
NL
HR
CZ
IS
SE
MT
NO
UK
FI
IE
SK
CY
MD
RS
ME
LT
LV
MK
EE
BG
UA
RO
BE
Total collective effective dose from NM procedures,
mSv per 1000 of population
Bone imaging Tumor imaging PET & PET/CT Thyroid total
Heart total Lung perfusion Renal total
Infection/inflammation total Parkinsonism total Somatostatin receptors imaging
CBF total Miscellaneous remainder

European population dose from medical imaging
83
Table 5.34. 7 procedures (Top 7) identified as being amongst the highest contributors to the
total collective effective dose of NM procedures in all DDM2 countries.
Table 5.35. Average annual effective dose per caput per NM procedure (mSv) of this study,
for all European countries compared with similar data for 8 DDM1 countries.
NM procedure Radiopharmaceutical Median (min-max)
contribution to total per
caput effective dose %
1 Bone Bone imaging Tc-99m
phosphates/phosphonates 38,7 (6,4-85,6)
2 Heart (Tl-201) Myocardial perfusion Tl-201 Chloride 3,8 (0,3-55,1)
Myocardial perfusion,
exercise & rest Tc-99m MIBI 14,2 (1,6-50,2)
Myocardial perfusion,
exercise & rest Tc-99m Tetrofosmin 10,2 (2,0-37,8)
Tumor imaging PET F-18 FDG 8,1 (0,2-24,6)
Tumor imaging PET &
diagnostic CT F-18 FDG 8,1 (0,4-33,9)
5 Thyroid (Tc-99m) Thyroid imaging (no
blocking) Tc-99m pertechnetate 3,9 (0,1-51,5)
6 Thyroid (I-131) Thyroid metastases( after
ablation, uptake 0 %) I-131 2,7 (0,1-75,2)
7 Lung Lung perfusion Tc-99m 1,6 (0,2-24,9)
91,3 Total median
Heart (Tc-99m) 3
Tumor imaging PET
& PET/CT
4
Top 7 group
NM procedure Average annual
effective dose per
caput (mSv) of all
European contries
Range Average annual
effective dose per
caput (mSv) of 8
DDM1 countries
Range
Bone imaging 0,014 0,001-0,06 0,02 0,008-0,1
Myocardial perfusion (Chloride) 0,009 0,00001-0,09
Myocardial perfusion, rest
(Tetrofosmin) 0,003 0,00007-0,01
Myocardial perfusion, exercise
(Tetrofosmin) 0,003 0,00012-0,02
Myocardial perfusion, rest
(MIBI) 0,004 0,00005-0,02
Myocardial perfusion, exercise
(MIBI) 0,004 0,00008-0,01
Lung perfusion 0,001 0,000001-0,008 0,001 0,001-0,006
Thyroid metastases (after
ablation, uptake 0%) 0,002 0,000001-0,04
Thyroid imaging (oral
administration, no blocking) 0,002 0,00002-0,01
Thyroid imaging (thyroid uptake
35%) 0,001 0,000001-0,01
Renal imaging (DMSA) 0,0003 0,0000005-0,003
Renal imaging (MAG 3) 0,0003 0,0000004-0,001
Renal imaging (DTPA) 0,0003 0,0000005-0,002
Total of the above NM
procedures 0,044 0,0000004-0,09 0,043 0,0006-0,1
0,01
0,004
0,0004
0,008-0,03
0,0006-0,02
0,0004-0,02

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
84
Table 5.36. Comparison of per caput effective doses between DDM1 and DDM2 studies, for
8 DDM1 countries and for a few examination groups available in the DDM1 Report (EC, 2008).
5.3 Collective effective dose for all medical imaging
The total collective effective dose of diagnostic x-ray and NM procedures in European
countries is:
Group 1: 578200 man Sv, resulting in a mean effective dose of 1,12 mSv per caput.
Group 2: 636000 man Sv, resulting in a mean effective dose of 1,10 mSv per caput.
The contribution of NM examinations to the total collective effective dose of diagnostic x-ray
and NM procedures in European countries is:
Group 1: 5,3 %
Group 2: 4,9 %.
The total European population dose from X-ray and NM procedures is summarized and
compared in Table 5.37. The per caput mean doses from X-ray and NM procedures is
compared in Table 5.38 and Fig. 5.23, where also the contribution of the NM examinations to
the total per caput effective dose from all medical imaging can be seen. The contribution of
the main groups of x-ray procedures and NM procedures to the total population dose is
illustrated in Figure 5.23 and Figure 5.24.
The contribution of the NM examinations to the total per caput effective dose from all medical
imaging is relatively small, on the average 5 %, while there are high variations in the
contribution between the countries, from 0,4 to 14,5 %.
The total collective effective dose from x-ray procedures is about half of the recent value of
collective effective dose estimated in Australia (Wallace 2012) and about one third of the
corresponding value in the USA (NCRP 2009). A relatively low value of population dose can
be a good sign for a successful implementation of the justification and optimization principles
in radiation protection, but it can also be related to the lack of imaging resources. A relatively
high value, on the other hand, should imply considerations on whether the justification and
optimization are properly implemented.
Country
DDM1 DDM2 DDM1 DDM2 DDM1 DDM2 DDM1 DDM2 DDM1 DDM2 DDM1 DDM2
BE 0,1 na 0,09 na 0,02 na 0,006 na 0,002 na 0,218 na
CH 0,02 0,01 0,03 0,01 0,004 0,0005 0,001 0,0007 0,0005 0,0002 0,056 0,029
DE 0,04 0,03 0,04 0,02 0,01 0,01 0,003 0,001 0,001 0,0009 0,094 0,068
LU 0,05 0,06 0,08 0,03 0,01 0,01 0,004 0,004 0,0005 0,0003 0,145 0,098
NL 0,02 0,02 0,04 0,02 0,004 0,00004 0,002 0,0003 0,0004 0,0003 0,066 0,040
NO 0,01 0,01 0,02 0,01 0,002 0,001 0,001 0,0005 0,0006 0,0003 0,034 0,022
SE 0,008 0,007 0,01 0,01 0,004 0,001 0,002 0,0007 0,0006 0,0003 0,025 0,020
UK 0,01 0,01 0,009 0,008 0,0006 0,0002 0,002 0,002 0,0008 0,0003 0,022 0,021
Total of 5 groups Bone scan (Tc99m) Thyroid (Tc99m) Lung (MAA) Kidney (MAG3) Heart (total)

European population dose from medical imaging
85
Table 5.37. Comparison of European population dose for x-ray and NM procedures.
(a)
(b)
Group 1 countries:
Member States
+ CH, NO, IS
X-ray
procedures
NM
procedures
Total x-ray
procedures as
a % of total
NM
procedures as
a % of total
Total collective
effective dose, manSv 547500 30700 578200 94,7 5,3
Effective dose per
caput, mSv 1,06 0,060 1,12
Group 2 countries:
All European countries
(36)
X-ray
procedures
NM
procedures
Total x-ray
procedures as
a % of total
NM
procedures as
a % of total
Total collective
effective dose, manSv 604900 31100 636000 95,1 4,9
Effective dose per
caput, mSv 1,05 0,054 1,10

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
86
Table 5.38. Comparison of European mean per caput effective dose for x-ray and NM
procedures.
Country Overall per caput E,
x-rays, mSv
Overall per caput E,
NM, mSv
Overall per caput E,
x-rays+NM, mSv
Contribution of NM
to the overall
x-rays+NM, %
AT 0,850 0,070 0,919 7,6
BE 1,960 na na na
BG 0,408 0,009 0,417 2,2
CH 1,181 0,047 1,228 3,8
CY 0,998 0,022 1,020 2,1
CZ 0,986 0,034 1,020 3,3
DE 1,673 0,080 1,753 4,6
DK 0,891 0,074 0,965 7,6
EE 1,428 0,010 1,438 0,7
EL 0,952 0,162 1,114 14,5
ES 1,081 0,065 1,146 5,7
FI 0,455 0,025 0,479 5,2
FR 1,249 0,093 1,342 6,9
HR 0,679 0,034 0,714 4,8
HU 1,775 0,058 1,833 3,2
IE 0,833 0,024 0,858 2,8
IS 1,695 0,034 1,729 1,9
IT 1,162 0,077 1,239 6,2
LT 0,922 0,010 0,933 1,1
LU 1,787 0,149 1,937 7,7
LV 0,893 0,010 0,904 1,1
MD 0,252 0,020 0,272 7,4
ME 0,897 0,012 0,908 1,3
MK 0,697 0,010 0,707 1,4
MT 0,678 0,028 0,706 4,0
NL 0,625 0,047 0,672 7,0
NO 1,253 0,027 1,280 2,1
PL 0,931 0,053 0,984 5,4
PT 1,174 0,077 1,251 6,2
RO 0,341 0,002 0,343 0,5
RS 0,775 0,016 0,790 2,0
SE 0,774 0,029 0,804 3,6
SI 0,634 0,057 0,691 8,2
SK 0,763 0,022 0,785 2,8
UA 1,060 0,004 1,065 0,4
UK 0,394 0,025 0,419 5,9

European population dose from medical imaging
87
Figure 5.23. Variation of per caput effective dose for European countries.
Figure 5.24. Contribution of the main groups of x-ray procedures and NM procedures to the
total collective effective dose for Group 1 countries (EU Member States + CH, IS, NO).
0,0
0,5
1,0
1,5
2,0
2,5
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Per caput effective dose, mSv
Overall per caput E, x-rays, mSv Overall per caput E, NM, mSv
17 %
12 %
57 %
9 %
5 % Plain radiography
Fluoroscopy
Computed
tomography
Interventional
radiology
Nuclear medicine

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
88
Figure 5.25. Contribution of the main groups of x-ray procedures and NM procedures to the
total collective effective dose for Group 2 countries (All 36 countries).
22 %
13 %
52 %
8 % 5 %
Plain radiography
Fluoroscopy

Computed
tomography
Interventional
radiology
Nuclear medicine

Accuracy of european population dose estimation
89
6 ACCURACY OF EUROPEAN POPULATION DOSE
ESTIMATION
6.1 X-ray procedures
6.1.1 Uncertainties in frequency estimations
Depending on the method of deriving frequency data there will be different algorithms used
to estimate the total national frequencies of x-ray examinations, which will be prone to many
potential sources of systematic and random (or statistical) error. These sources of error can
lead to significant uncertainties in the frequency estimates and it is desirable, although often
quite difficult, to identify and evaluate the major sources of uncertainty. The estimation of
these uncertainties has been discussed in detail in RP 154, where important sources of
uncertainty in the frequency estimates are identified as follows.
 Problems in relating the information stored in terms of examination codes into actual
numbers of examinations (e.g. inadequate definition of an “examination”, problems of
double-counting, particularly with examinations of double-sided organs).
 Insufficiently differentiated codes (“accumulative codes”).
 Bias in the sample and invalid assumptions made when scaling up sample data to
derive frequencies for the whole country (i.e. problem of using data from an
unrepresentative sample of hospitals or from incomplete central statistics).
 Lack of frequency data from some important providers of radiology services (e.g.
interventional procedures performed outside x-ray departments or fluoroscopy
performed in operating theatres and therefore not recorded by the RIS, or dentists in
private practice not covered by central statistics).
 Mistakes in the data recorded or collected.
The range of uncertainties for the frequency data estimated by the member states, derived
from the results of the project questionnaire, is between 0,03 % and 352 %. The high range
suggests that the estimation of uncertainties is not very consistent. Most typically, the
uncertainties range from 1 % to 25 %.
6.1.2 Uncertainties in estimating typical effective dose
Estimates of the typical effective dose for each type of examination in a country are usually
based on measurements of practical dose quantities at a limited number of hospitals or
clinics and conversion of these measurements to effective doses, for example using
conversion factors recommended in RP 154. According to RP 154, the important sources of
uncertainty in these estimates include:
 Uncertainties in the basic dose measurements
 Uncertainties due to variations in patient doses between hospitals and the limited
sample size
 Uncertainties in the coefficients used to convert the measured dose quantities into
typical effective doses

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
90
As discussed in detail in RP 154, the uncertainties in the basic dose measurements, ideally 7
% at a 95 % confidence level but in practice more likely about 10-20 %, are small compared
to the variation in dose seen in a sample of patients undergoing the same x-ray examination
in the same hospital and compared to the variation in mean doses for the same x-ray
examination between all hospitals in a national survey. Consequently, the uncertainties in the
individual basic dose measurements will not have a significant impact on the accuracy of the
average dose estimates associated with each type of x-ray examination, and these
uncertainties are essentially included in the uncertainties due to the variation in measured
patient doses between hospitals.
Based on experiences from a UK practice, a method has been developed to roughly ascribe
uncertainties in the estimated mean value due to the variation in patient doses between x-ray
rooms and the limited number of rooms in any survey (Hart and Wall 2002). Random
uncertainties from ±10 % to ± 50 % (at 95 % confidence level) have been estimated and
tabulated as a function of sample size (patient doses from 5-19 to more than 100 radiology
rooms; see RP 154). However, if no dose measurements are performed in the country for a
particular examination and the mean effective dose is taken to be the same as that observed
in another country, the uncertainties may be much larger: a general 95 % confidence limit of
about a factor of about 2 is suggested (+100 %, -50 %) unless there are good reasons to
believe that radiology practice in the foreign country is similar to that in the country in
question and the foreign data are based on measurements in more than 20 radiology rooms.
Uncertainties in the conversion coefficients are difficult to quantify and depend on how
closely the exposure conditions and the phantom for which the conversion coefficients were
calculated match the average exposure conditions and the average patient for the x-ray
examination in question. In RP 154, an estimate of ±10 % is given for the most common x-
ray examinations and ±25 % for other less common examinations where the match might not
be very good.
The uncertainties associated with limitations in the size of the patient dose survey and with
the conversions coefficients (CC) can be combined to estimate the overall uncertainty in the
mean effective dose estimate for a particular examination using the standard method of
propagation of uncertainties (i.e. by totaling up the uncertainties in quadrature). Overall
uncertainties estimated in this way for a number of different sample sizes and for good and
poor matching of exposure conditions in the conversion coefficient calculations are tabulated
in RP 154 and range from ±14 % (>100 rooms, good CC match) to +100%, -50 % (foreign
data only).
The estimation of the uncertainty of the mean (or typical) effective dose has been further
elaborated in the most recent population dose assessments in the UK (Hart et al. 2010) by
introducing a reliability scale. This scale gives an approximate indication of the levels of
uncertainty involved in the estimates of the typical effective dose for each examination. The
scale comprises five levels of reliability (A to E), defined according to the quantity and quality
of the data available for estimating typical effective doses. The reliability scale from Hart et
al. (2010) has been reproduced here in Table 6.1, but modified for a more generic use.
The approximate ranges of uncertainty in the last column of Table 6.1 are based on the dose
distributions observed in the UK National Patient Dose Database. Some allowance for
systematic uncertainty associated with the conversion coefficients has been made by
allocating a total uncertainty of about twice the average random uncertainty on the dose
measurements, for reliability ratings A, B and C. The uncertainties for reliability levels D and
E are likely to be higher, so for these levels the (somewhat arbitrary) uncertainty ranges of a
factor of two or three, respectively, have been introduced. To justify a more generic use of
this table, the uncertainties in last column should be based on the country’s own dose
distributions unless these can be assumed to be reasonably similar to that of the UK. In case
of small countries, instead of the number (e.g. > 100), the criteria could better be based on a
certain percentage of the hospitals (e.g. > 10 %).

Accuracy of european population dose estimation
91
In the UK, 69 % of the estimated total collective dose is due to examinations with reliability
ratings A and B, thus a substantial part of the collective dose is known to a reasonable
accuracy. In general, for a good accuracy of the overall collective effective dose, it would be
important to aim at reliability ratings A, B and C, with decreasing order of importance, for the
types of examination which have the highest contribution to it.
Table 6.1. Reliability scale for the typical effective dose estimates (modified from Hart et
al. 2010)
Reliability
rating
Criteria Approximate
uncertainty
A >100 hospitals of the country providing dose data
Conversion factors available directly from Monte
Carlo calculations (e.g using PCXMC)
±10 %
B >20 hospitals of the country providing dose data
Conversion factors available directly from Monte
Carlo calculations (e.g using PCXMC)
±25 %
C 1-19 hospitals of the country
Conversion factors can be confidently derived from
Monte Carlo calculations (e.g using PCXMC)
±50 %
D 1-19 hospitals of the country OR foreign data
<20 patient measurements
Conversion factors “guesstimated”
Factor of 2
E No dose measurements; estimated from other
examinations
Factor of 3
The range of uncertainties for the mean effective dose data estimated by the member states,
usually based on the above principles of RP 154 and derived from the results of the project
questionnaire, are shown in Figure 6.1. The range is from 10 to 100 %, while the average is
about 20-40 %. The uncertainties for fluoroscopy procedures seem on average to be a little
higher than for the other procedures. These ranges suggest that in many cases the effective
dose is not estimated with high reliability but correspond to the reliability ratings from B to D.
Figure 6.1. Range of uncertainties estimated for the mean effective dose.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Chest/Thorax
Cervical spine
Thoracic spine
Lumbar spine (inc.LSJ)
Mammography
Abdomen
Pelvis & hip
Ba meal
Ba enema
Ba follow
-through
IVU
Cardiac angiography
CT head
CT neck
CT chest
CT spine
CT abdomen
CT pelvis
CT trunk****
PTCA
Uncertainty %
Min uncertainty %
Mean uncertainty %
Max uncertainty %

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
92
6.1.3 Uncertainties of population dose estimations
Since the collective dose for each examination is the product of the frequency and the
effective dose, the uncertainty on the collective dose for each examination can be calculated
by combining in squares the relative (percentage) uncertainties for the frequency and for the
effective dose. From the range of uncertainties for frequency data and effective dose data, as
shown in Sections 6.1 and 6.2.1, it can be seen that the uncertainty of the collective dose is
often dominated by the uncertainty of the typical effective dose, rather than uncertainty of the
frequency.
Since the total, or overall collective effective dose (population dose), from all x-ray
procedures carried out in the country, is the sum of the collective doses for each
examination, the uncertainty of the overall collective effective dose can be calculated by
combining in squares the absolute uncertainties for the collective doses for each examination
(Hart et al. 2010, Taylor and Kuyatt 1994). The results of such calculations, for two European
countries providing real data for all x-ray examinations, are ±12 % in UK (Hart et al 2010)
and ± 9 % in Finland.
For the countries where the population dose estimate is based only on the Top 20 method,
the uncertainty of the total collective effective dose from all Top 20 examinations can be
estimated using the same principle as above for the overall collective effective dose from all
x-ray examinations. In this estimation, due considerations should be made for:
 the effect of missing data on frequencies, e.g. by estimating the missing frequencies
based on the comparison of the ratio of this unknown frequency to total Top 20
frequency with the corresponding average ratio for all Top 20 countries, and
estimating the uncertainty of this estimation
 the effect of different interpretations of the examinations in a TOP 20 group and the
accuracy/comprehensiveness of effective dose assignment for this group (how many
different types of examinations have been considered to evaluate the mean dose for
this group).
The uncertainties of the total collective effective dose from all Top 20 examinations,
estimated in the above way, are typically 5-20 % but range from about 5 to 80 %; the mean
value is 17 %.
However, the estimation of the uncertainty of the total collective effective dose from all Top
20 examinations is not of high value on its own, because the Top 20 method can only give a
rough underestimate, between 58 and 96 %, or 78 % on the average (Section 6.1.2.2), of the
overall collective effective dose (population dose), from all x-ray procedures carried out in the
country. To obtain the real overall collective effective dose, a correction factor is needed as
applied in the calculation of European population dose in this report. This correction factor
has a standard uncertainty of 12-18 % (deviations 20-30 % from the mean value), based on
the comparison of the data from the 6 countries providing both TOP 20 and overall data.
Therefore, using the above mean value of 17 % for the uncertainty of the TOP 20 population
dose, the uncertainty of the population dose in the TOP 20 countries becomes around 21-
25%.
Since the overall European collective effective dose (population dose) is the sum of the
overall collective doses for each country, the uncertainty of the overall European collective
effective dose can be calculated by combining in squares the absolute uncertainties for the
collective doses for each country (Taylor and Kuyatt 1994). Assuming 12 % for the estimated
relative uncertainties of the population doses for the 6 countries with overall population dose
estimations (corresponding to the value evaluated in the UK), and 25 % for the population
dose uncertainty in all TOP 20 countries, the uncertainty of the overall European collective
effective dose is about 6 %.

Accuracy of european population dose estimation
93
The above result is valid for the group of European countries providing either overall data or
TOP 20 data; this includes all EU Member States (28 countries), the EFTA countries (CH,
NO, IS) and 5 other countries (, MK, MD, ME, RS and UA).
6.2 Nuclear Medicine procedures
For nuclear medicine procedures, the estimation of the uncertainties can be based on similar
considerations as above for x-ray procedures. As for frequencies, rather similar sources of
uncertainty can be identified; in general, however, the frequencies seem to be better known
than for x-ray procedures, probably because of much smaller number of health care units
providing NM procedures. As for typical effective dose, the typical mean activities can be
estimated from surveys with a reasonable accuracy, while the accuracy of conversion factors
from activity to effective dose is very difficult to estimate. Finally, for the estimation of the
uncertainty of population dose determination, exactly the same principles as for x-ray
procedures can be applied, because the collective dose is the product of the frequency and
the effective dose.
The DDM2 project questionnaires did not provide data on the uncertainties of population
dose estimation for NM procedures. Therefore, a rough estimate of the uncertainty of
European population dose for NM procedures has been performed on the following
assumptions for all countries:
• mean uncertainty of frequencies: 5 %
• mean uncertainty of typical mean activities: 10 %
• mean uncertainty of conversion factors: 20 %
Using these assumptions and following the same principles as for x-ray procedures, the
uncertainty of the overall European collective effective dose for NM procedures will be 5,6 %,
i.e. about the same as for x-ray procedures.

Estimations of age and sex distributions
95
7 ESTIMATIONS OF AGE AND SEX DISTRIBUTIONS
7.1 Age and sex distributions for X-rays examinations
The European Guidance on Estimating Population Dose from Medical X-ray Procedures
(RP154, Annex 3; EC 2008) established typical European age/sex distributions for patients
undergoing the Top 20 X-ray examinations.
EUROSTAT (http://epp.eurostat.ec.europa.eu/portal/page/portal/eurostat/home) data on age
distribution from 2005 for five DDM1 countries (DK, LU, NL, CH and UK) and from 2010 for
four DDM2 countries (HR, DK, FR and SK), that all provided information on age and sex
distribution for X-rays examinations have been compared in Figure 7.1 and Figure 7.2. The
typical age/sex distributions data used in this report are based on the average data from the
four countries (HR, DK, FR and SK), weighted according to the sample size in each country
as shown in Table 7.1.
Table 7.1. Sample size for age/sex data in four DDM2 countries
Number of patients in sample (male & female)
Top 20 Exam Croatia Denmark France Slovakia
1. Chest 186964 679597 11266836 791011
2. Cervical spine 6158 31324 1162529 111992
3. Thoracic spine 2961 43541 444842 15984
4. Lumbar spine 6437 92165 2847449 192001
5. Mammography 1325 409418 5076059 182288
6. Abdomen 18401 22918 2370254 73169
7. Pelvis and hips 19958 226713 5682951 93719
8. Barium meal 2526 5100 109919 4165
9. Barium enema 206 2664 0 2699
10. Barium follow 1949 4030 28388 4409
11. IVU 6869 632 129076 9525
12. Cardiac
angiography
21023 962 0 12250
13. CT head 35535 134017 1926899 107410
14. CT neck 1331 30192 152231 6206
15. CT chest 7789 149075 1620603 27882
16. CT spine 2960 5485 852152 3356
17. CT abdomen 10530 178619 2177317 41755
18. CT pelvis 1280 36706 0 17126
19. CT entire trunk 10949 3215 63756 9792
20. PTCA 9420 9939 0 4750
Total 354571 2066312 35911261 1711489
The comparison shows a roughly similar distribution except a peak at ages of 15-29 years for
the population in SK. The overall age distribution of the EU 27 countries shows no significant
differences between the data from 2005 and 2010.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
96
Figure 7.1. Population age distribution in five DDM1 countries (2005)
Figure 7.2. Population age distribution in four DDM2 countries (2010)
The average data on age/sex distribution for the five above-mentioned DDM1 countries and
the four DDM2 countries for specific X-rays examinations were compared to see if they were
sufficiently similar to confirm that there is no major change in the distribution of such data in
Europe.

The age distributions (both sexes combined) were plotted in 5-year age bins. Example
distributions are shown in Figure 7.3 to Figure 7.6 for male X-ray chest, PTCA and CT chest
examinations and for female mammography examination respectively.
DDM I (2005)
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
0-4 5-9 10-14 15-19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-69 70-74 75-79 80-84 85>
Age group
Percentage

EU 27
DK
LU
NL
UK
CH
DDM II (2010)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
0-4 5-9 10-14 15-19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-69 70-74 75-79 80-84 85>
Age group
Percentage
 EU (27)
DK
FR
SK
HR

Estimations of age and sex distributions
97
Figure 7.3. Comparison of age distribution for chest X-rays exams on males
Figure 7.4. Comparison of age distribution for PTCA exams on males
Chest X-rays for male [~52%]
0.00%
1.00%
2.00%
3.00%
4.00%
5.00%
6.00%
7.00%
0-4 5-9 10-14 15-19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-69 70-74 75-79 80-84 85-89 90>
Age Group
Percentage
DDM II
DDM I
PTCA for male [~71%]
0.00%
2.00%
4.00%
6.00%
8.00%
10.00%
12.00%
14.00%
0-4 5-9 10-14 15-19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-69 70-74 75-79 80-84 85-89 90>
Age Group
Percentage
DDM II
DDM I

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
98
Figure. 7.5. Comparison of age distribution for CT chest exams on males
Figure 7.6. Comparison of age distribution for mammography exams on females only
It can be seen from these comparisons that the distributions are sufficiently similar between
the DDM1 and DDM2 countries to conclude that the use of the European average is still a
reasonable guide when specific national data on age and sex distribution per examination
are not available. Annex 8 provides detailed data on age and sex distributions for the Top 20
CT Chest for male [~56%]
0.00%
1.00%
2.00%
3.00%
4.00%
5.00%
6.00%
7.00%
8.00%
0-4 5-9 10-14 15-19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-69 70-74 75-79 80-84 85-89 90>
Age Group
Percentage
DDM II
DDM I
Mamography for female [~99%]
0.00%
2.00%
4.00%
6.00%
8.00%
10.00%
12.00%
14.00%
16.00%
18.00%
20.00%
0-4 5-9 10-14 15-19 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-69 70-74 75-79 80-84 85-89 90>
Age Group
Percentage
DDM II
DDM I

Estimations of age and sex distributions
99
examinations that can be used by any European country to relate collective doses to
collective detriment, in the absence of more reliable national data. For further information see
also annex 3 of the European Guidance on Estimating Population Dose from Medical X-ray
Procedures (RP 154; EC 2008).
7.2 Age and sex distributions for nuclear medicine procedures
There are very few data in literature on age and sex distribution of patients undergoing
nuclear medicine procedures. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that the percentage of various
types of examination for children differs widely from those for adults. Most nuclear medicine
procedures in adults are related to cardiac problems or cancer (both of which are rare in
children). Renal examinations constitute the majority of nuclear medicine procedures done
on children in some countries (UNSCEAR, 2010). Detailed data on age and sex distribution
of patients undergoing nuclear medicine examinations were not available in this project.

References
101
8 REFERENCES
Clarke J.C., Cranley K., Kelly B.E., Bell K., Smith H.S. Provision of MRI can significantly
reduce CT collective dose, Br. J. Radiol. 74 (2001), 926-931.
European Commission (EC) (2008). European Guidance on Estimating Population Doses
from Medical X-ray Procedures. Radiation Protection 154.
Hart D, Wall BF, Hillier MC and Shrimpton PC (2010) Frequency and collective dose for
medical and dental x-ray examinations in the UK, 2008. Report HPA-CRCE-012
(www.hpa.org.uk).
IAEA (2007). Dosimetry in Diagnostic Radiology: An International Code of Practice.
International Atomic Energy Agency Technical Reports Series 457. IAEA, Vienna.
ICRP (1977). Recommendations of the International Commission on Radiological Protection.
Publication 26, Ann ICRP 1(No 3).
ICRP (1988). Radiation Dose to Patients from Radiopharmaceuticals, ICRP Publication 53,
Ann. ICRP 18 (1-4).
ICRP (1998). Radiation Dose to Patients from Radiopharmaceuticals (Addendum to ICRP
Publication 53), ICRP Publication 80, Ann. ICRP 28 (3).
ICRP (1991). 1990 Recommendations of the International Commission on Radiological
Protection. Publication 60, Ann ICRP 21(Nos 1-3).
ICRP (2007). The 2007 Recommendations of the International Commission on Radiological
Protection. Publication 103, Ann ICRP 37(Nos 2-4).
ICRP (2008). Radiation Dose to Patients from Radiopharmaceuticals - Addendum 3 to ICRP
Publication 53, ICRP Publication 106, Ann. ICRP 38 (1-2).
ICRP (2009). Adult reference computational phantoms. International Commission on
Radiological Protection Publication 110, Ann ICRP 39 (No 2).
ICRU (2005). Patient dosimetry for x rays used in medical imaging. International Commission
on Radiation Units and Measurements Report 74. Journal of the ICRU Vol 5 No 2.
Jansen JTM and Shrimpton PC (2011). Influence of the CT scanner on normalised organ
and effective doses for standard examinations estimated by Monte Carlo simulation for three
adult reference patients. Presentation at 97th Scientific Assembly and Annual Meeting of the
Radiological Society of North America, 27 November – 2 December, 2011, Chicago.
http://rsna2011.rsna.org/search/event_display.cfm?printmode=n&em_id=11004752.
National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements (NCRP). Ionizing Radiation
Exposure of the Population of the United States, NCRP Report No. 160 (2009).
NRPB (1993). Medical exposure: guidance on the 1990 recommendations of ICRP.
Documents of the National Radiological Protection Board, Vol 4 No 2.
Oikarinen H., Meriläinen S., Pääkkö E., Karttunen A., Nieminen M.T. and Tervonen O.
Unjustified CT examinations in young patients, Eur. Radiol. 19 (5) (2009), 1161-1165.
UNSCEAR (2010). United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation
2008 Report: Sources and effects of ionizing radiation – Volume 1. United Nations, New
York.
Wallace A. Australian per Caput Dose from Diagnostic Imaging and Nuclear Medicine,
Workshop on European Population Doses from Medical Exposure, 24-26 April 2012, Athens,
Greece. Available from www.ddmed.eu.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
102
Wall BF, Haylock R, Jansen JTM, Hillier MC, Hart D and Shrimpton PC (2011). Radiation
risks from medical x-ray examinations as a function of the age and sex of the patient. Report
HPA-CRCE-028 (www.hpa.org.uk).

Annexes
103
9 ANNEXES
(ONLY AVAILABLE ONLINE)
Annex 1. List of contact persons
Annex 2. General questionnaire (WP2)
Annex 3. Detailed questionnaire (WP3 and WP4)
Annex 4. General data
Annex 5. Variation of mean effective doses (x-ray exams) and mean activities (NM exams)
between countries
Annex 6. Country specific data on the methods of population dose estimations
Annex 7. Summary of the results of the general questionnaire on the availability of frequency
and population dose data
Annex 8. Age and sex distributions for the Top 20 examinations in European countries
Annex 9. Guidance on the interpretations of RP 154 in categorization of codes
Annex 10. Additional guidance for estimating population dose
Annex 11. Population dose database
Annex 12. Effect of tissue risk weighting factors on the estimation of effective dose for x-ray
procedures

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
104
9.1 Annex 1 - LIST OF CONTACT PERSONS
Contacts from the EU member states
Nr Country Contact person Address & Tel. & Contacts
1 Austria (AT) Manfred Ditto
Bundesministerium für Gesundheit, Familie und Jugend
Abteilung - Strahlenschutz
Radetzkystraße 2
A-1030 Wien
2 Belgium (BE) Michel Biernaux
Federal Agency for Nuclear Control
Ravensteinstraat 36
B-1000 Brussels
3 Bulgaria (BG) Jenia Vassileva
National Center of Radiobiology and Radiation Protection
3 Georgi Sofiiski str.
BG-1606 Sofia
4 Czech
Republic (CZ) Leos Novak
National Radiation Protection Institute
Bartoskova 28
CZ-140 00 Prague 4
5 Croatia Ivana Kralik State Office for Radiological and Nuclear Safety
Zagreb
6 Cyprus (CY) Panicos
Demetriades
Ministry of Labour and Social Insurance
Clementos 9
1061 Nicosia
7 Denmark
(DK) Hanne Waltenburg
National Institute of Radiation Protection
Knapholm 7
DK-2730 Herlev
8 Estonia (EE) Jelena Shubina
Radiation Safety Department
Environmental Board
Kopli 76
EE-10416 Tallinn
9 Finland (FI) Hannu Jarvinen
Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority (STUK)
P.O.Box 14
FI-00881 Helsinki
10 France (FR) Bernard Aubert
Institut de Radioprotection et de Sûreté Nucléaire (IRSN)
Unité d'Expertise en radioprotection Médicale
BP 17
FR- 92262 Fontenay-aux-Roses
11 Germany
(DE) Elke Nekolla
Bundesamt für Strahlenschutz (BfS)
Fachbereich SG “Strahlenschutz und Gesundheit
Ingolstädter Landstr. 1
DE-85764 Neuherberg
12 Greece (GR) Stavroula Vogiatzi
GAEC
P.O.Box 60092
Ag. Paraskevi
15310 Athens
13 Hungary (HU) Sáfrány Géza
National Research Institute for Radiobiology and Radiohygiene
Anna u. 5
HU-1221 Budapest
14 Ireland (IR) Ciara Norton
Medical Exposure Radiation Unit
Health Services Executive
Mill Lane
Palmerstown
Dublin 20

Annexes
105
15 Italy (IT) Renato Padovani
Az. Ospedaliero-Universitaria
S. Maria della Misericordia
It-33100 Udine
16 Latvia (LV) Signe Mahere Children’s Clinical Hospital
Health technologies division manager
17 Lithuania Julius Ziliukas
Ministry of Health
Radiation Protection Centre
Kalvariju 153
LT-08221 Vilnius
18 Luxembourg
(LU) Carlo Back
Ministry of Health
Division de la Radioprotection
Villa Louvigny
L-2120 Luxembourg
19 Malta (MT) Mark Borg
Mater Dei Hospital
University of Malta
Medical Imaging Department
Msida MSD 2090
20 Netherlands
(NL) Ischa de Waard
Laboratory for Radiation Research
RIVM, PB33
P.O.Box 1
NL-3720 BA Bilthoven
21 Poland (PL) Dariusz
Kluszczyński
National Centre for Radiation Protection in Health Care
(NCRPHC)
22 Portugal (PT) Pedro Manuel
Peixoto Teles
Instituto Superior Técnico, Universidade Técnica
de Lisboa
Estrada Nacional 10
2686-953 Sacavém
23 Romania
(RO) Olga Girjoaba
National Commission for Nuclear Activities Control
Libertatii Bvd. 14, sector 5
RO-Bucharest 050706
24 Slovenia (SI) Dejan Zontar
Slovenian Radiation Protection Administration
Ajdovščina 4
SI-1000 Ljubljana
25 Slovakia (SK) Dusan Salat
Radiation Protection Institute
Stanicna 1062/24SK-911
05 Trencin
26 Spain (ES) Dr. Sergio Cañete
Hidalgo
University of Malaga
Head of Radiation Protection
Malaga
27 Sweden (SE) Anders Frank
Swedish Radiation Safety Authority
Solna strandväg 96
SE-171 16 Stockholm
28 United
Kingdom (UK) Paul Shrimpton
Medical Exposure Department
Health Protection Agency, Centre for Radiation, Chemical and
Environmental Hazards
Chilton, Didcot, Oxon, OX11 0RQ

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
106
Contacts from associate countries
Nr Country Contact person Address & Tel. & contacts
29 Norway (NO) Hilde Olerud
Norwegian Radiation Protection Authority
Department of Radiation Protection and Nuclear safety
P.O. box 55
NO-1332 Østerås
30 Switzerland
(CH) Philipp Trueb
Federal Office of Public Health
Schwarzenburgstraße 165
CH-3097 Liebefeld
31
Bosnia and
Herzegovina
(HR)
Adnan Beganovic
Clinical Centre of Sarajevo University
Bolnička 25
Sarajevo
32 Iceland (IS) Guðlaugur
Einarsson
Icelandic Radiation Safety Authority
Raudararstigur
10150 Reykjavik
33 Moldova (MD) Alexandru Hustuc
Centrul National de Sanatate Publica (CNSP)
mun. Chisinau
str. Gh. Asachi 67/a
34 Serbia (SP) Olivera Ciraj Bjelac
Vinca Institute of Nuclear Sciences
Radiation Protection Laboratory
M. P. Alasa 12‐14, Vinca,
P.O.Box 522,
11001 Belgrade
35 Ukraine (UA) Stadnyk Larysa
Grigorev Institute for Medical Radiology
Radiation Hygiene of Medical Staff and Patients
Kharkiv, vul. Pushkinska, 82,
61024 Ukraine
36
Frmr. Yug,
Rep. Of
Macedonia
(MA)
Vesna Gersan
MD Anderson Cancer Center
Faculty of Science and Mathematics

Annexes
107
9.2 Annex 2 - GENERAL QUESTIONNAIRE (WP2)
The purpose of the general questionnaire to the European countries was to survey the national
regulatory frameworks and the status of implementation of the requirements for medical dose
surveys and population dose estimations.. The questionnaire was distributed to the national
contact persons; the list of national contact persons was subsequently updated (Annex 1)
through the implementation of WP2. In the following, a brief summary of the general
questionnaire (with the original cover words) is presented.
Dose Datamed 2: General Questionnaire
Questionnaire on Population Dose Estimations
We would like to collect within the Dose Datamed 2 project information related to population
dose estimates from x-ray examinations and nuclear medicine within the European Union. The
data collection is organised in two levels: First the General Questionnaire will gather information
about national regulations, national healthcare systems and basic data of national population
dose estimates. In a second step, a more detailed questionnaire will gather the detailed
information about national surveys and their results.
This General Questionnaire is composed of four parts:
1. General and contact information.
2. Regulatory framework: Existence of regulations (laws, decrees etc.), recommendations
or established systems for population dose estimation.
3. Indicators of the national healthcare system.
4. Availability of basic data on national surveys of population doses.
Fill in the data carefully until {EXPIRY-DMY}, as the results of this review of national surveys on
population doses will be used to prepare the second more detailed survey.
Usage instructions for this questionnaire:
In Dose Datamed 2, data collection is performed using this online questionnaire system. We
have tried to make the questions as simple and clear as possible. If questions do not apply to
the situation in your country, please give details about these specific topics in the comments.
We often ask estimates. In this cases, we do not need exact number, but we would like to get
an idea of the situation in your country.
There is no need to fill the questionnaire at once: At any time, you can stop and continue your
work on the questionnaire by clicking on the “Resume Later” Button at the bottom of the page.
At the first time you are asked to provide a name and a password for your survey to access it
again later. If you provide an email address you will receive a message with a direct link to your
saved survey. If not you can load a previously saved survey by clicking the “Load unfinished
survey” button on this survey description page. This will show up a new input form where you
can re-enter the name and password you used to save your survey. The final submission of the
questionnaire is done with the Submit button at the end of the questionnaire. This has to be
done within the time period of the questionnaire. Important: After the submission of the
questionnaire you are not able to perform any changes to your answers!
If you have any questions regarding this questionnaire don't hesitate to contact the Dose
Datamed 2 Team directly at contact@ddmed.eu
There are 49 questions in this survey.
General and contact information
Section 1/4
1 Name of the country: *
Please write your answer here:
2 Primary contact data of the person providing reply to this questionnaire: *

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
108
Please write your answer(s) here:
Organization(s)
Contact person(s)
Role in the organization
Address
Phone (e.g. +22 607 1234567 )
E-mail
3 Additional contact data providing reply to this questionnaire:
Please write your answer(s) here:
Organization(s)
Contact person(s)
Role in the organization
Address
Phone (e.g. +22 607 1234567 )
E-mail
Regulatory framework for population dose estimation
Section 2/4
This part of the questionnaire reviews the existence of regulations (laws, decrees etc.),
recommendations or established systems with respect to population dose estimations.
4 Tick “x” in the relevant column; e.g., if regulations (law, statute, decree) for collection of
frequencies exist, tick “x” in the column “Regulations (…) exist”
Check any that apply:
Regulations (Legal
requirements: law,
statute, decree,..)
exist.
Recommendations or
established systems
exist.
No regulations, no
recommendations, no
established systems.
Regulations or
recommendations are
being prepared.
Collection of frequencies (number of examinations)
Population dose estimation
Organization for collection of frequencies
Organization for making population dose estimation

Annexes
109
9.3 Annex 3 - DETAILED QUSTIONNAIRE (WP3 AND WP4)
The results of the general questionnaire (Annex 2) were used to plan the more detailed surveys
in WP3 and WP4, to collect data on national population doses and DRLs. The detailed
questionnaire was a joint questionnaire, planned in a way that all countries were able to submit
their available data, but also consider and be aware of the different options according to the
existing guidance of RP 154. Questionnaires consisted of detailed electronic surveys and Excel-
data sheets.
If you have any questions regarding this questionnaire don't hesitate to contact the Dose
Datamed 2 Team directly at contact@ddmed.eu.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
110
9.4 Annex 4 – General Data
Table 4.1. Organizations responsible for frequency collection and population dose estimation.
Note: In NO and SI, the responsibility is not clearly stated but the given institution has performed the
population dose surveys.
Country Organization responsible for the collection of
frequency data

Organization responsible for estimating the
population dose
Organization responsible for providing
data on medical exposures to UNSCEAR
AT Federal Ministry of Health Federal Ministry of Health Federal Ministry of Health
BA Medical physics departments or external
technical services
National regulatory agency National regulatory agency
BE Institut national d'assurance maladie-invalidité
(INAMI)
Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (FANC) Federal Agency for Nuclear Control
(FANC)
BG National Centre of Radiobiology and Radiation
Protection (NCRRP)
National Centre of Radiobiology and
Radiation Protection (NCRRP)
National Centre of Radiobiology and
Radiation Protection (NCRRP)
BY State Dosimetric Registry, Republican
Research and Practical Centre of Radiation
Medicine and Human Ecology of the Ministry of
Health
State Dosimetric Registry, Republican
Research and Practical Centre of Radiation
Medicine and Human Ecology of the Ministry
of Health
─
CH Institute of Radiation Physics (IRA) Institute of Radiation Physics (IRA) Federal Office of Public Health
CY ─ ─ ─
CZ Institute of Health Information and Statistics ─ State Office for Nuclear Safety
DE Bundesamt für Strahlenschutz (BfS) Bundesamt für Strahlenschutz (BfS) Bundesamt für Strahlenschutz (BfS)
DK National Board of Health (Documentation Unit) National Board of Health (National Institute
of Health)
National Board of Health
EE Ministry of Social Affair Radiation Safety Department of the
Environmental Board
─
EL Greek Atomic Energy Commission Greek Atomic Energy Commission Greek Atomic Energy Commission
ES Health Authorities Health Authorities and Nuclear Safety
Council
Health Authorities
FI Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority (STUK) Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority
(STUK)
Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority
(STUK)
FR Institut de Radioprotection et de Sûreté
Nucléaire (IRSN)
Institut de Radioprotection et de Sûreté
Nucléaire (IRSN)
Institut de Radioprotection et de Sûreté
Nucléaire (IRSN)
HR State office for radiological and nuclear safety State office for radiological and nuclear
safety
State office for radiological and nuclear
safety
HU National Center for Healthcare Audit and
Improvement (X-rays), National Institute for
Quality- and Organizational Development in
Healthcare and Medicine (NM)
─ ─
IE Health Service Executive (HSE) Health Service Executive (HSE) Department of Health and Children
IS Icelandic Radiation Safety Authority Icelandic Radiation Safety Authority Icelandic Radiation Safety Authority
IT Regional Health Authorities Regional Health Authorities ─
LT Institute of Hygiene Health Information Radiation Protection Centre Radiation Protection Centre
LU Division de la Radioprotection Division de la Radioprotection Division de la Radioprotection
LV Radiation Safety Center ─ ─
MD ─ ─ ─
ME ─ ─ ─
MK ─ Institute of Public Health ─
MT Health Information Office ─ ─
NL National Institute for Public Health and the
Environment (RIVM)
National Institute for Public Health and the
Environment (RIVM)
National Institute for Public Health and
the Environment (RIVM)
NO Radiation Protection Authority (NRPA) Radiation Protection Authority (NRPA) Radiation Protection Authority (NRPA)
PL National Centre for Radiation Protection in
Health Care
National Centre for Radiation Protection in
Health Care
National Centre for Radiation Protection
in Health Care
PT Directorate-General for Health / Division of
Statistics for Health
Instituto Tecnológico e Nuclear Unit of
Radiological Protection and Safety
─
RO Ministry of Health, National Institute for Public
Health
Ministry of Health, National Institute for
Public Health
Ministry of Health, National Institute for
Public Health
RS Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety
Agency
Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety
Agency
Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety
Agency
SE Radiation Safety Authority (SSM) Radiation Safety Authority (SSM) Radiation Safety Authority (SSM)
SI ─ ─ Radiation Protection Administration
SK Public Health Authority Public Health Authority Public Health Authority
UA Ministry of Health (Information-analytical
Center)
Grigorev Institute for Medical Radiology Ministry of Health / Grigorev Institute for
Medical Radiology
UK Health Protection Agency (HPA) Health Protection Agency (HPA) Health Protection Agency (HPA)

Annexes
111
Table 4.2. Numbers of selected healthcare providers per million of population. Value 0,0: No
information provided.
Country University
Hospitals
Other
state
hospitals
State
hospitals
TOTAL
Private
hospitals
Private
radiology
institutes
General
practicies
Chiro-
practic
Clinics
Dental
practices
TB
screening
units
Mammo
screening
units
AT 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
BE 1,6 11,3 12,9 7,0 25,9 0,0 0,0 0,0 1,2 2,3
BG 2,9 27,7 30,7 2,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 45,3 3,7 0,0
CH 1,8 18,7 20,5 17,1 11,0 532,1 17,4 435,8 0,0 10,6
CY 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
CZ 1,0 5,1 6,2 11,5 0,0 58,3 0,0 49,4 0,0 6,5
DE 0,4 17,1 17,5 6,5 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 1,1
DK 0,5 7,2 7,7 7,2 2,2 0,0 34,2 287,8 0,0 0,9
EE 0,8 25,0 25,8 0,0 0,0 9,1 0,0 300,0 0,0 0,8
EL 0,5 13,6 14,0 0,8 48,8 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
ES 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
FI 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
FR 0,5 13,9 14,4 25,3 40,8 0,0 0,0 322,3 0,0 39,4
HR 1,9 5,4 7,2 1,2 6,5 0,0 0,0 121,7 0,0 0,2
HU 0,4 14,6 15,0 1,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 30,0 17,0 5,0
IE 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
IS 3,1 0,0 3,1 0,0 6,3 68,9 9,4 1296,3 0,0 3,1
IT 0,6 13,0 13,6 8,3 22,2 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
LT 3,4 19,1 22,5 0,3 0,0 25,9 0,0 61,6 0,0 8,0
LU 0,0 6,4 6,4 4,3 0,0 0,0 0,0 851,1 6,4 12,8
LV 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
MD 1,7 19,1 20,8 0,8 2,0 12,1 0,0 21,0 0,0 0,0
ME 0,0 11,9 11,9 4,5 0,0 31,3 0,0 597,0 0,0 0,0
MK 5,9 1,5 7,4 1,0 18,7 24,1 0,0 0,0 0,0 18,2
MT 2,5 14,8 17,3 14,8 19,8 14,8 0,0 0,0 0,0 42,0
NL 0,5 5,2 5,6 0,3 0,0 0,0 1,2 0,0 0,1 0,5
NO 1,3 13,9 15,2 1,9 5,1 0,0 10,6 612,2 0,2 3,4
PL 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
PT 0,1 8,0 8,1 2,8 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
RO 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
RS 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
SE 0,9 7,9 8,8 0,1 2,7 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 6,6
SI 1,0 7,8 8,8 0,0 2,0 22,4 0,0 160,5 0,0 17,6
SK 0,7 10,5 11,2 4,6 19,1 0,0 0,0 230,6 0,0 19,5
UA 0,0 20,9 20,9 0,0 0,0 15,5 0,0 6,3 25,5 7,6
UK 0,0 19,2 19,2 3,1 0,0 0,0 11,4 179,2 0,0 1,3

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
112
Table 4.3. Numbers of selected professional groups of physicians, per million of population.
Value 0,0: No information provided.
Country General
Practitioners
Radiologists Nuclear
medicine
physicians
Cardiologists Vascular
surgeons
AT 0,0 119,0 20,2 0,0 0,0
BE 273,4 134,8 23,5 47,4 90,3
BG 0,0 114,8 6,2 26,5 0,0
CH 649,4 84,0 7,4 69,9 9,1
CY 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
CZ 0,0 138,5 14,9 27,6 3,1
DE 0,0 80,7 12,2 55,0 0,9
DK 649,0 121,4 11,7 48,0 0,0
EE 0,0 122,0 5,3 8,3 11,4
EL 0,0 166,0 31,0 29,6 29,6
ES 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
FI 1032,7 111,7 15,2 40,4 6,9
FR 0,0 93,4 8,2 17,3 6,7
HR 0,0 62,2 8,2 5,8 0,0
HU 0,0 129,8 8,3 49,9 10,0
IE 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
IS 682,6 119,0 12,5 68,9 0,0
IT 0,0 159,7 15,7 0,0 0,0
LT 250,5 106,8 5,8 12,9 6,5
LU 638,3 95,7 21,3 63,8 10,6
LV 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
MD 104,0 108,3 5,0 2,8 2,2
ME 31,3 67,2 3,0 0,0 10,4
MK 937,9 56,7 9,9 37,9 9,9
MT 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
NL 599,7 51,8 6,4 43,1 0,0
NO 572,5 125,6 7,4 0,0 19,2
PL 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0
PT 490,2 79,3 5,9 81,2 13,7
RO 571,9 50,3 2,0 13,1 0,0
RS 1191,5 80,4 6,3 0,0 0,0
SE 0,0 108,7 0,0 0,0 0,0
SI 0,0 109,8 14,6 7,3 2,4
SK 4133,5 94,9 7,2 5,0 4,2
UA 93,7 87,1 3,1 1,7 1,3
UK 0,0 45,9 0,0 0,0 0,0

Annexes
113
9.5 Annex 5 - VARIATION OF MEAN EFFECTIVE DOSES (X-RAY
EXAMS) AND MEAN ACTIVITIES (NM EXAMS) BETWEEN
COUNTRIES
In this Annex, the variation of mean (typical) effective doses for each Top 20 group of x-ray
procedures and the variation of administered mean activities for selected NM procedures, as
reported by the European countries, is shown by graphs.
Mean effective doses for x-ray procedures
0,00
0,05
0,10
0,15
0,20
0,25
0,30
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
Chest/Thorax
0,0
0,1
0,2
0,3
0,4
0,5
0,6
0,7
0,8
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
Cervical spine
0,0
0,5
1,0
1,5
2,0
2,5
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
Thoracic spine

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
114
0,0
0,5
1,0
1,5
2,0
2,5
3,0
3,5
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
Lumbar spine (inc.LSJ)
0,0
0,1
0,2
0,3
0,4
0,5
0,6
0,7
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
Mammography
0,0
0,5
1,0
1,5
2,0
2,5
3,0
3,5
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
Abdomen
0,0
0,5
1,0
1,5
2,0
2,5
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
Pelvis & hip

Annexes
115
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
Ba meal
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
Ba enema
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
Ba follow-through
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
IVU

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
116
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
Cardiac angio-graphy
0
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
5
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
CT head
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
CT neck
0
5
10
15
20
25
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
CT chest

Annexes
117
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
CT spine
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
CT abdomen
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
CT pelvis
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
CT trunk

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
118
Note: The exceptionally high doses for PTCA in Serbia are due to the fact that common practice in Serbia
is that PCI is performed after CA, so the dose reported for PTCA is for combined CA and PCI.
Mean activities for NM procedures
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean effective dose, mSv
PTCA
0
200
400
600
800
1000
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean activity, MBq
Bone imaging with Tc-99m
Bone imaging
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean activity, MBq
Mycardial perfusion with Tc-99m (Tetrofosmin).
Myocardial perfusion, rest (Tetrofosmin) Myocardial perfusion, exercise (Tetrofosmin)

Annexes
119
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean activity, MBq
Myocardial perfusion with Tc-99m (MIBI)
Myocardial perfusion, rest (MIBI) Myocardial perfusion, exercise (MIBI)
0
100
200
300
400
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean activity, MBq
Thyroid metastases (after ablation, uptake 0%) with I-131.
Thyroid metastases (after ablation, uptake 0%)
0
200
400
600
800
1000
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean activity, MBq
MUGA, cardiac blood pool, cardiac blood flow (equilibrium) with Tc-99m
MUGA, cardiac blood pool, cardiac blood flow (equilibrium)(Tc-99m)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean activity, MBq
Lung perfusion with Tc-99m
Lung perfusion

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
120
0
100
200
300
400
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean activity, MBq
Renal imaging with Tc-99m.
Renal imaging (DMSA) Renal imaging (MAG 3) Renal imaging (DTPA)
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean activity, MBq
Cerebral blood flow imaging with Tc-99m
Cerebral blood flow (HMPAO, Ceretec) Cerebral blood flow (ECD)
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
AT
BE
BG
CH
CY
CZ
DE
DK
EE
EL
ES
FI
FR
HR
HU
IE
IS
IT
LT
LU
LV
MD
ME
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
PT
RO
RS
SE
SI
SK
UA
UK
Mean activity, MBq
Infection/inflammation imaging with Tc-99m.
Infection/inflammation imaging (Tc-labbelled white blood cells)
Infection/inflammation imaging (Monoclonal antibody)

Annexes
121
9.6 Annex 6 - COUNTRY SPECIFIC DATA ON THE METHODS OF
POPULATION DOSE ESTIMATIONS
In this Annex, brief descriptions of the methods of the latest population dose estimations in
various European countries are given. The major features of the population dose estimations
are further summarized in Table 6. (x-ray procedures) and Table (nuclear medicine).
9.6.1 BELGIUM
The last population dose survey in Belgium was conducted in 2010 for X-ray procedures. The
frequency data was given by the National Health Insurance for RX procedures from a national
coding system. Following the RP154 Report, more than 70 examinations were included in the
survey except for cardiac angiography and PTCA for which the codes were restricted. The
average effective dose was assessed by patient dose survey and calculations using conversion
factors published by the ICRP for radiography and CT examinations and recent bibliographic
data for all other X-ray modalities.
For NM procedures the national coding system does not allow to classify the various
examinations. From a survey launched in the end of 2011 in the nuclear medicine departments,
administered activities (minimum and maximum) were defined for more or less 70 NM
examinations with a response rate of 66%.
9.6.2 BULGARIA
The national Medical exposure regulation requires the healthcare providers to report every year
the number of X-ray and Nuclear medicine procedures to the Ministry of Health, using a
standardized questionnaires and classification of 50 codes for X-rays and 34 codes for NM.
The frequency data for X-rays are collected by the National Centre of Public Health and
Analysis and the summarized data are provided to the National Centre of Radiobiology and
Radiation Protection (NCRRP). Using these data, NCRRP estimates annually the collective
dose of the Bulgarian population. The latest X-ray frequency data are based on the information
for the procedures performed in 2010. The latest patient dose survey in X-ray procedures was
performed by NCRRP in 2007-2008, and the mean effective dose for each examination was
assessed by calculations using appropriate software (PCXMC, CT expo, etc) or conversion
coefficients, or data were taken from the literature for those examinations for which own
measurements were not available.
For NM procedures the healthcare providers are reporting information directly to the NCRRP
every year. 100% of the NM centres reported their data on number of NM procedures and
typical administered activities in 2010. The mean effective dose was calculated from mean
administered activities, using conversion factors published by the ICRP.
9.6.3 CROATIA
The population dose survey in Croatia was conducted for 2010 for X-ray procedures and NM
procedures. The frequencies of different examinations were extracted from Croatian Institute
for Health Insurance (CIHI) database that covers over 99% of Croatian population. Two different
types of coding exists: in-hospital patients are coded according ACHI (Australian classification
of health interventions) codes, and out-of-hospital patients are coded using national coding
system. The first coding system can be used for 225 examinations approach, but the second
one has its limitations even for TOP20 examinations approach. Mammography screening data
were also given by CIHI. We decided to use TOP20 approach. To minimize uncertainties and to
investigate usability of database, a direct survey in 7 out of 9 major Croatian nuclear medicine
departments, 5 interventional cardiology departments and one University hospital was done.
The results showed that the CIHI database results must be used with caution.

The average effective dose for each examination was assessed by typical practice survey,
output measurements and calculations (by NRPB) for radiography, typical practice and phantom
dose measurement survey in mammography (Faj et all, 2008, RPD), by patient dose survey and
phantom measurements for CT examinations, by patient dose survey in 5 out of 12

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
122
interventional cardiology departments (Faj et al, 2008, RPD; Brnić et al, 2010, RPD), and using
average exposure group values from RP154 for other examinations (Ba enema, follow and meal
and IVU). Survey of mean administered activities was conducted for NM procedures and
calculation, using conversion factors published by the ICRP, was done.
9.6.4 CZECH REPUBLIC
In last years, no whole scale population dose survey was conducted in the Czech Republic.
Within years 2003-2010 several dose surveys in particular imaging modalities (general
radiography, CT, mammography, dental, paediatric chest X-rays, interventional cardiology)
were performed, but population dose was never assessed. For the purpose of Dose Datamed
project, frequency data (2009) were obtained from largest health insurance company in CZ,
covering 60 % of population and also from Institute of Health Information and Statistics (IHIS) of
the Czech Republic annual report 2009, covering 100 % of procedures. In the database of the
health insurance company information about frequencies for particular coded exams were
obtained. Data from the health insurance company allows to assess sex and age distributions
for the coded exams. From the IHIS total numbers of performed exams in the whole population
for different imaging modalities (e.g. CT in general) were obtained. Codes of exams in the CZ
do not correspond to codes in EC RP 154, main difference is in CT exams. In CZ, CT exams
are sorted according to use of contrast agent and number of scans, not according to a region of
the body. Frequency of CT exams of different body regions were estimated on a basis of a
practice in a large faculty hospital and total number of all CT exams. Typical effective doses of
X-ray exams were computed from typical ESD, DAP, DLP using PCXMC or conversion
coefficients given in EC RP 154. For NM procedures, E was computed from administered
activity.
9.6.5 DENMARK
The last population dose survey in Denmark was conducted in 2009/2010 for X-ray procedures.
Frequency data is available from the National Patient Registry for all examinations carried out in
hospitals, and data from 2008 was used. Additionally, frequency data for examinations carried
out in chiropractic clinics (2006) was obtained. Only examinations carried out at public hospitals
and in chiropractic clinics were included in the survey, and a scaling factor of 1.05 was used to
account for examinations carried out in private hospitals and clinics. However, later assessment
has shown that public hospitals account for 99 % of examinations. Frequency data is available
for the 195 examinations types included in the Danish national coding system, but only the Top-
20 examinations were included in this survey. Patient doses have been reported from the
hospitals for some types of examinations and these were used together with conversion factors
to assess average effective doses for these examinations. For the remaining types of
examinations, literature values were used.
Population dose surveys have been conducted nearly every year for nuclear medicine
procedures, and the values reported here are from survey of 2010 data. Frequency data as well
as average administered doses are reported from the hospitals and the coverage is 100 %.
Examinations are grouped in around 70 examination types for which frequencies are
determined. The average effective dose for each type of examination is determined from the
average administered doses using conversion factors.
9.6.6 ESTONIA
In Estonia systematic data collection of patient doses has not been nationally regulated yet.
Patient doses have been studied at random since 1999 in some typical examinations in
paediatric and adult radiology. For the frequency data collection the both DDM2 questionnaires
were sent to the health care providers: the response rate was 53 % (x-rays), therefore data was
extrapolated to cover the whole country, and 100% (NM). In 2010, there were 948 X-Ray units
(most of them, approximately 74 %, is dental X-Ray) in use by 486 health care providers
(hospital departments, medical and dental practices, the latter is approximately 85 % from all
users). “TOP20” examinations type and 29 NM examinations were included in the survey. In
accordance with the Estonian national coding system, the description for the conditions of the

Annexes
123
X-Ray examination depends on the body anatomic region and the number of X-ray exposures.
CT examinations in Estonia are categorized in CT head and CT trunk only. The use mean value
for CT trunk dose to mean effective dose for all CT neck &c hest & spine & abdomen & pelvis
has resulted in a collective dose.
The average effective dose for each examination was reassessed based on EC RP154 Report
and calculation from mean administered activities, using conversion factors published by the
ICRP, for NM procedures.
9.6.7 FINLAND
The last population dose survey in Finland was conducted in 2008 for X-ray procedures and
2009 for NM procedures. The frequency data was collected by questionnaires carried out by
the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority (STUK) to the healthcare providers; the response
rate was 98 % (x-rays) and 100 % (NM). All 799 type of x-ray examinations and about 80 NM
examinations, in accordance with the Finnish national coding system, were included in the
survey. The average effective dose for each examination was assessed by patient dose surveys
and calculations (by PCXMC) for radiography, by patient dose surveys and phantom
measurements for CT examinations, by patient dose surveys and recent bibliographic data for
all other x-ray modalities and by calculation from mean administered activities, using conversion
factors published by the ICRP, for NM procedures.
9.6.8 FRANCE
The last population dose survey in France was conducted in 2007 by the Institute for radiation
protection and nuclear safety (IRSN) and the National institute for public health surveillance
(InVS). The frequency data was obtained from two sources:
for private practice : date was provided by the national health insurance data for a
representative sample of 1% of the population (about 500 000 persons),
for public practice, 2 surveys in public hospitals; in radiology the survey included 50 hospitals
(about 12% of the public hospitals). In NM, a questionnaire has been sent to the 127 public NM
departments (response rate 72%).
All 269 types of x-ray examinations and 108 types of NM examinations, in accordance with the
French national coding system, were included in the survey.
The average effective dose for each examination was assessed:
for conventional radiology and CT: by patient dose surveys and annual DRL study carried out
by IRSN, and calculated using PCXMC, CTExpo or conversion factors from DAP or DLP to
effective dose for radiology and CT,
for all other x-ray modalities (dental and interventional): by patient dose surveys and recent
bibliographic data,
for NM procedures: by calculation from mean administered activities assessed through the
survey described above, using conversion factors published by the ICRP.
9.6.9 GERMANY
In Germany, surveys on frequency of diagnostic procedures are conducted annually, data being
available for 1996 to 2009. The survey of 2011 refers to 2009. Estimates on frequencies are
mainly based on German health insurance data, namely on specific codes used for the
reimbursement of radiological procedures. These codes are well suited to estimate the
frequency of X-ray and NM examinations, since in Germany almost 98% of the population has
full-cover health insurance (statutory or non-statutory, i.e. full-cover private). There are about
100 / 40 codes referring to X-ray / NM diagnostics (in each case, i.e. different codes for
statutory and non-statutory health insurance). The out-patient sector is completely covered by
estimates from health insurance data where about 80% of all radio-diagnostics are performed in
out-patients. For in-patients, representative data come from surveys of German hospitals. In
2009, about 85 Mio. X-ray exams (+ 33 Mio. dental) and 3 Mio. NM exams were performed. The

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
124
effective doses per X-ray exam type were calculated using measured quantities, e.g. KAP, and
conversion factors which were either obtained from literature or by using the software X-RAY
DOSIMET-RG which is based on the results of Monte Carlo calculations with anthropomorphic
phantoms. For NM procedures, effective doses were estimated from mean administered
activities using conversion factors published by the ICRP.
9.6.10 GREECE
The last population dose survey in Greece was conducted in 2005 for X-ray procedures and
2009 for NM procedures. The frequency data was collected by questionnaires carried out by
the Greek Atomic Energy Commission (GAEC) to the healthcare providers; the response rate
was 20 % (x-rays) and more than 86% (NM). 45 types of x-ray examinations and 14 types of
NM examinations were included in the survey. The average effective dose for each examination
was assessed by patient dose surveys and calculations (by PCXMC) for general radiography
and mammography, by Greek bibliographic data for CT examinations and by calculation from
mean administered activities, using conversion factors published by the ICRP, for NM
procedures.
9.6.11 ICELAND
The last population dose survey in Iceland was conducted in 2008 for X-ray procedures and in
2009 for NM procedures. The frequency data was collected by questionnaires carried out by
the Icelandic Radiation Safety Authority (IRSA) to the healthcare providers; the response rate
was over 90 % for both x-rays and NM.
The survey extends to just over 1000 different examination codes in use for all x-ray and NM
examinations, as they are also used for reimbursement purposes.
The average effective dose for each examination is based on patient dose surveys, conducted
over a period 5 years (2004-2009), were Dose Area Product (DAP) was measured patient
examinations in radiography, fluoroscopy, interventional and angiography examinations. For
mammography the effective dose is based on measured Mean Glandular Dose (MGD) during
patient examinations. For CT examinations the effective dose is based on collected data on
Dose Length Product (DLP) for CT examinations. For NM procedures the effective dose is
based on calculations from mean administered activities in patient examinations, using
conversion factors published by the ICRP.
9.6.12 ITALY
The survey included 5 Italian regions (Emilia-Romagna, Friuli Venezia Giulia, Lombardia,
Toscana, Umbria) accounting for approximately 30% of the population.
The included radiology procedures in 2006 (reference year) covered several broad categories:
projection radiography (Chest/Thorax; Cervical, Thoracic and Lumbar spine; Mammography;
Abdomen; Pelvis and hip); radiography and fluoroscopy (Ba meal and Ba enema; Intravenous
urography); interventional radiology (Cardiac angiography; Percutaneous Transluminal
Coronary Angioplasty); computed tomography (CT head; CT neck; CT chest; CT spine; CT
abdomen; CT pelvis).
In nuclear medicine many examinations and radiopharmaceuticals were considered: Adrenal
cortical scintigraphy (I-131); Bone imaging (Tc-99m); Bone marrow scintigraphy (Tc-99m);
Cerebral blood flow (Tc-99m); Dopamine transporter imaging (I-123); Esophageal-gastric-
duodenal transit (Tc-99m); Evaluation of heterotropic gastric mucosa (Tc-99m);
Infection/inflammation imaging (Tc-99m, Ga-67); Lung perfusion (Tc-99m); Lymphatic and
lymph nodes scintigraphy (Tc-99m); Multiple Gated Acquisition scan (Tc-99m); Myocardial
perfusion (Tc-99m, Tl-201, F-18); Neuroendocrine tumours (In-111); Parathyroid imaging (Tc-
99m); Renal imaging (Tc-99m); Scintigraphic study of cancer (Ga-67, I-123, I-131); Tumor
imaging (F-18); Thyroid imaging (Tc-99m, I-123) and metastases (I-131); Ventilation lung scan
(Tc-99m).

Annexes
125
For each procedure were requested to each region both the frequency and the dose: the metric
of the latter was selected depending on the type of examination (Entrance Skin Dose in
projection radiography, Kerma Area Product in interventional radiology, Entrance Skin Air
Kerma and Average Glandular Dose in mammography, Dose Length Product in computed
tomography, Administered Activity in nuclear medicine). Where a region was not able to provide
data for a specific examination, the results were interpolated on the basis of the other regions
data. Using appropriate conversion coefficients effective dose per examination were estimated
and, finally, data extrapolated to the entire Italian population, to assess collective effective dose
and per caput effective dose.
The uncertainties at 95% confidence level were calculated according to the Dose DataMed2
criteria: in radiology procedures, the total relative uncertainties were 9.3% and 11.4% for
frequency and collective dose, respectively.
9.6.13 LATVIA
The estimation was performed in 2010. The frequency data for NM was collected by data
provided by the healthcare providers. We got response from all hospitals delivering NM
procedures. In NM questionnaire were included more than 99% of all NM procedures. The
mean administered activities for each examination was calculated from patient examination
data.
The frequency data for different X-ray examinations was not collected because of late
involvement in DDM2 project and lack of national database of patient dosimetry. However, the
total number of X-ray procedures for 2010 was obtained from the national statistics for the
following groups of exams: radiography, fluoroscopy (including diagnostic angiography), CT
(with and without contrast), and interventional (endovascular). Since frequency data for Latvia
were close to the average values for Europe and dose data were not available, the collective
dose was estimated using the average values from the DDM2 survey.
9.6.14 LITHUANIA
The last general dose survey in Lithuania was conducted in 2008 for X-ray procedures (except
interventional procedures) and 2011 for interventional procedures (IR) and for NM procedures.
For computer tomography (CT) procedures dose data was updated in 2009 and for plain film
radiography in 2011. Because the frequency data is available only for total number of x-ray and
NM procedures, the frequency of procedures (except CT, IR and NM) was calculated by taking
average frequency % from RP 154. The frequency data of CT, IR and NM was collected in 2010
by questionnaires carried out by the Radiation Protection Centre to the healthcare providers; the
response rate was 95 % (CT), 100 % (IR) and 100 % (NM). ALL TOP 20 (except CT trunk) and
11 the most popular in Lithuania NM examinations were included in the survey. The average
effective dose for each examination was assessed by patient dose surveys, measurements with
TLD and calculations (by PCXMC) for plain film radiography, by patient dose surveys and
phantom measurements for CT examinations, by patient dose surveys and recent bibliographic
data for all other x-ray modalities and by calculation from mean administered activities, using
conversion factors published by the ICRP, for NM procedures.
9.6.15 LUXEMBOURG
Article 12 of the European Directive 97/43EURATOM [1] obliges the Member States to
determine the population dose from medical exposures. In 2005, the Radiation Protection
Department of the Ministry of Health in Luxembourg implemented these requirements of this
European Directive and conducted the first national evaluation on radiation doses from
diagnostic procedures in Luxembourg [2]. The evaluation was based on frequency information
of more than 250 types/codes of diagnostic radiation examinations, covering conventional
radiology, computed tomography, interventional radiology and nuclear medicine.
Although the relatively high radiation exposure associated with computed tomography has been
known for a long time the first evaluation in 2005 has provided valuable information on the
situation of diagnostic radiology in Luxembourg and it showed that over 50% of the received
dose comes from computed tomography.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
126
The examination frequency data provided to the Dose Datamed II project were abstracted from
electronic records of the National Health Insurance which covers about 99% of Luxembourg’s
population. Concerning the dosimetric data some measured patient doses of examinations were
available from national DLR surveys [3,4]. Most of the information regarding the effective dose
per examination was taken from the published literature.
The Radiation Protection Department of the Ministry of Health has initiate and carried out in
cooperation with the Public Research Centre Henri Tudor (Tudor), the Luxembourgian Society
of Radiology, the Federation of Hospitals (FHL) and CT experts for medical dose optimisation
several studies to optimize the radiation exposure of patients due to CT. To publish the results
of the actions taken , national CT conferences were organised in 2008, 2010 and 2011. Further
actions have been announced on the last conference in 2012 with a special focus on paediatric
examinations.
The planned electronic “Radiology Passport” will have an important role to play and might help
to decrease medical radiation exposures in Luxembourg [5].
European Council: Directive 97/43/EURATOM Health protection of individuals against the

dangers of ionising radiation in relation to medical exposure; Memorial of the European Union
Nr. L 180 from 9th July 1997, p. 22-27
Medical exposure of the population from diagnostic use of ionizing radiation in
Luxembourg between 1994 and 2002, Shannoun F, Zeeb H, Back C, Blettner M. Health Phys.
2006, 91: 154-162
Réglement grand-ducal du 16 mars 2001 relatif à la protection sanitaire des personnes contre
les dangers des rayonnements ionisants lors d’expositions à des fins médicales. Memorial A no
66 du 6 juin 2001. Service central de legislation – 2001 – Luxembourg.
Dose optimisation in computed radiography. A. Schreiner-Karoussou. Radiation Protection
Dosimetry (2005). Vol. 117, No 1-3, pp-139-142. Nuclear Publishing Technology.
Benefits of a National Electronic Radiological Record, Jahnen A, Pruski C, Bouzid H, Jerusalem
N, Krippes R, Roth U, Benzschawel S, Back B, Med-e-Tel 2010, 14-16.04.2010 Luxembourg,
Luxexpo, Published in: Global Telemedicine and eHealth Updates: Knowledge Resources”, Vol.
3, 2010
9.6.16 FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
This is the first survey ever performed for frequency of examination and assessment of effective
dose in Macedonia. A questionnaire about frequency of TOP20 examinations was sent to all 85
X-ray departments in the country and 57 of them (67%) provided data. A questionnaire for
Nuclear medicine was sent to all three NM departments and all of them (100%) provided data.
Since there is no a national coding system and the coverage of national codes, an additional
letter for type examination categorization was accompanied to the questionnaire. It was used a
calculation method of estimating the mean (typical) effective dose for plain radiography, CT and
interventional radiology by using of mean effective doses for TOP20 exams according to the
RP154 European Guidance. For effective and collective effective dose in NM examinations it
were used conversion factors from the ICTP 80 report.
9.6.17 MOLDOVA
The population dose survey in the Republic of Moldova was conducted for the first time (until
now there are no responsible central authority for data collection and evaluation). Following the
recommendations of the EC RP154 Report for the study 9 persons was included in the team to
carry out the tasks: Coordination (and contact person), experts in areas: Radiology (Nuclear
Medicine), Dosimetry, Public Health, Statistics, and Project Management. The frequency data
was collected for the period y.y.2000-2010(only y.2010 was presented for DDM2) by
questionnaires carried out by the Centre of Radiation Protection (CRP) of the National Centre
of Public Health (NCPH) of the Ministry of Health RM as follow: - for the NM the questionnaires
were distributed to 5(100%) healthcare providers; - for X-Ray the CRP collected the data about
the number of investigations from so-called Radiological Centre and the doses were

Annexes
127
investigated and evaluated by CRP during the QC control procedures. The collected data rate
was 49% (from 225 institutions for X-Rays) and 80 % (from 5 institutions for NM). Top 20 type of
X-Ray and NM examinations was selected for the first evaluation. In the Republic of Moldova
the obsolete (not actual) code (statistical) system is in use (Radiological Centre - data
manager). The average effective dose was assessed for audits only: - for X-Ray examination by
patient dose surveys, calculations, and phantom measurements, and - for NM by calculation
from mean administered activities, using conversion factors published by the ICRP.
9.6.18 MONTENEGRO
Montenegro is a small, developing country with the population of 670 000 inhabitants. There are
approximately 80 large X-ray units for radiological diagnostics, 250–300 dental ones, 12 CTs
(Computed Tomography), 15 mammography devices, 3 densitometers, two angiography units
and one NM. Most X-ray generators (50 %) work in high frequency mode, 19 % in three
phase/six pulse, 6 % in twelve pulse rectifications and 25 % have monophase/two pulse unit.
A quality control (QC) system was started five years ago. The first survey in Montenegro of
patient doses in diagnostic radiology was conducted in 2010 as part of the results for my PhD
thesis. Part of results of patient dose surveys for CT has been collected by a colleague Ms.
Sonja Ivanovic for the project RER/9/093. Results for mammography have missed because I do
not have appropriate equipment in order to determine the main glandular dose (MGD) or
effective dose. Following the recommendations EC RP154 I have gathered all the frequencies
within your questionnaire for all TOP 20 groups (DOSE DATAMED 2). The response rate was
100 % (x-rays) and 100 % (NM). It should be emphasized that patient dose monitoring has no
tradition in radiological practice in Montenegro. There are no established national diagnostic
reference levels (DRL). Another poor practice reflects the lack of patient dose records in
radiological practice per year and population.
Exposure analysis covered 6 most frequent diagnostic centres in 6 different medical institutions,
in 3 towns (Podgorica, Niksic, Bar). The X-ray tube output (or ESAK) and uncertainty was
measured according to the IAEA Code of Practice (Technical Reports Series No. 457- IAEA).
With applying proper conversion coefficients, ESAK represent the basis for dose estimations for
total effective dose for an individual patient, by using various software packages, like NRPB-
SR62 and PCXMC.
9.6.19 NORWAY
The Norwegian Radiation Protection Authority (NRPA) has the authorization to request
information about examination frequency, administered activity and patient doses, and has
made regular assessments of the use of diagnostic radiology and nuclear medicine since the
80thies in order to explore trends in the use of different imaging modalities and impact on
population doses. The two last frequency studies relate to the years 2002 and 2008, both have
been based on the main principles in the European guideline RP154 with annexes. We collect
frequency information for magnetic resonance- and ultrasound imaging as well.
X-ray based radiology (Radiography, fluoroscopy, angio/intervension, CT), MR and Ultrasound
Annual numbers of examinations was obtained directly by questionnaires sent to all Norwegian
hospitals, clinics and practices. The Norwegian College of Radiology had through more than
twenty years developed a code system that has been used both for activity analysis and
reimbursement [1]. The number of codes was gathered from the radiological information
systems (RIS) in all departments, from which actual numbers of examinations were estimated.
Some problems of double-counting, particularly with examinations of double-sided organs had
to be adjusted for, and likewise examinations which consisted of several contrast series that
would create more than one radiological code in the system.
For radiographic and fluoroscopic X-ray examinations the dosimetry in Norway has been based
on the dose-area product, PKA. In older days, the data were collected by site visits to all
hospitals by the NRPA. For CT examinations the CT dose index for the actual scanners, CK,
were either measured or looked up in the literature, while the technique parameters for standard
protocols and for certain clinical indications were collected by questionnaires to all CT rooms.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
128
The Monte Carlo based conversion coefficients published by the former NRPB in the UK (now
part of the Health Protection Agency) were used to calculate the effective dose. Since 2004, the
dose values are based on collected information from the hospitals and X-ray institutes by asking
for their local diagnostic reference levels (DRL’s) or “representative dose values”; these are the
mean values for 20 representative patients in each X-ray or CT room.
23% of the examinations were done in private sector, the rest in public hospitals. In the time
period from 2002 to 2008 the number of planar X-ray is reduced; ultrasound is about the same,
while both CT and MR have doubled in frequency. As a result, the part of the total dose caused
by CT has increased from 59% (2002) to 80% (2008) even though the collective effective dose
has not changed since 2002. Simple radiographs involve lower doses to the patient today
compared with the situation before the millennium, while fluoroscopic examinations show
examples of both higher and lower doses. It is worth noticing that CT examinations generally
gives lower doses today compared with the 90s, except for CT of the spine.
Nuclear Medicine
A questionnaire was sent to all 25 hospitals in Norway with nuclear medicine to collect
information about the practice of examinations. The collective effective dose to the Norwegian
population from nuclear medicine (NM) was calculated using information on the number of NM
procedures and the average effective dose per procedure. In the calculations of average
effective dose per procedure, information on the average administered activity per procedure
and the effective dose per activity was required. This information was derived from the
questionnaires and the ICRP Publication 80, respectively.
Conclusion
The average effective dose in Norway has not changed since 2002. This is partly explained by
technological advances in CT, but also the implementation of new radiation protection
regulations since 2004, with increased focus on quality assurance and optimisation/diagnostic
reference levels (DRL’s). Nuclear medicine contributes about 5% to this total dose.
References:
Olerud HM, Borgen L, Friberg EG, Lysdahl KB, Silkoset RD, Widmark A, Saxeböl G. Lessons
learned from 25 years in exploring Norwegian radiology practices from a radiation protection
point of view. Proceedings from World Congress 2009 on Medical Physics and Biomedical
Engineering Munich, Sept 7 – 12 2009
Olerud HM, Friberg EG, Widmark A, Almen A. Trends in examination frequency and population
doses in Norway, 2002 - 2008. NSFS Conference “Current Challenges in Radiation Protection”,
Reykjavik, August 22 – 25, 2011 Iceland. http://nsfs.org/NSFS-2011/
StrålevernInfo 1012:2 Nukleærmedisinske undersøkingar og behandlingar.
http://www.nrpa.no/dav/42aeb29342.pdf (Text Norwegian)
9.6.20 POLAND
Estimation of medical exposure for Polish population was based on few sources of data. The
annual frequency and dose for the plain film radiography and fluoroscopy examinations
estimated by National Centre for Radiation Protection in Health Care (NCRPHC) were based on
data collected in 2006 for UNSCEAR. The frequency data for computed tomography was
assessed using the number of procedures reimbursed by National Health Fund (NHF) in 2010.
As the NHF coding system is based on the international classification system for surgical,
diagnostic and therapeutic procedures ICD-9 the modalities that don't have its counterpart in
ICD-9 (i.e. CT pelvis, spine and trunk) were approximated using data obtained by NCRPHC
from private health care providers and recent bibliographic data. For all X-ray modalities the
average effective dose for each examination was assessed by patient dose surveys and
bibliographic data. The average effective dose for NM procedures were calculated on the basis
of mean administered activities using conversion factors published by ICRP.

Annexes
129
9.6.21 PORTUGAL
Radiology exams:
In order to determine the frequency of the TOP 20 exams for the year 2010, and obtain robust
data we have proceeded to:
compile the frequency data from the Civil Servants' reimbursement system (10% of exams)
compile the frequency data from the reimbursements of the exams performed under the
"conventioned" regime (roughly 20% of exams);
perform a hospital survey in order to obtain the annual frequency of the exams performed in the
"general regime" i.e. reimbursed on a hospital basis), by sending out a questionnaire. Out of
122 Hospitals in Portugal, 28 responded to the questionnaire, which gives a 23%
representation.
For the Angiography and PTCA exams we asked the APIC (Portuguese Association of
Cardiovascular Intervention) which compiles data to give us their annual number of exams for
the year 2010.
In order to obtain the final results, we summed the values obtained from the ADSE, the 5 ARSs
and an extrapolation of the data of the values obtained from the Hospital survey. Rhe PTCA and
the Angiography exam values were obtained directly from the APIC. The remainder of the
exams (from the other subsystems - military, judicial, etc.) account for only approximately 5% of
the total exams and we thus not considered in this study.
In order to estimate the typical patient dose for the TOP20 x-ray examinations, we have
proceeded to:
Compile the existing academic and published studies (total of 31 studies) and analyse their
relevance in the scope of this project (10 relevant studies);
Additional measurements/dose data gathered with a pilot study conducted in 7 public hospitals
(3 in the north region, 3 in the centre and 1 in the south), 2 private hospitals in the centre region
and 7 Health Centres in the south region of Portugal.
Nuclear Medicine exams:
A survey, based on the one designed by the Dose Datamed II consortium, consisting of an
excel sheet with a set of 28 nuclear medicine exams, were sent to all nuclear medicine
healthcare providers in Portugal with a request to fill a form with the annual frequency data,
together with the average administered activity per procedure. For a universe of 26 centers with
significant statistics, 19 centres replied to the survey, which corresponds to a 73% response
rate to the survey. We used a linear extrapolation to obtain the values for the entire country.
9.6.22 SERBIA
The systematic population dose survey in Serbia has never been performed. For the purpose
of Dose Datamed II project frequency data collection trough questionnaire was performed by
Radiation and Environmental Protection Department of Vinca Institute of Nuclear Sciences,
which is a licensed technical service for radiation protection and medical physic support to
hospital. Data were collected from approximately 40 % x-rays units and 71% nuclear medicine
departments. For x-ray procedures, hospitals were classified according size and number of x-
ray units to Clinical centres, Clinical hospitals, General hospitals and Small health centres. The
fraction of institutions participated in the survey was 50% (2/4) for clinical centres, 75% (3/4) for
Clinical hospitals, 48% (19/40) for General hospitals and 8% (12/157) for small health centres
with only a few x-ray units. Data collection was performed in 100% (2/2) departments with more
than one gamma camera and 62% (8/13) departments with one gamma camera. National
coding system suitable for population dose assessment is not available in Serbia, as multiple
radiological examinations are pooled in the single code. Trough questionnaire, data was
collected for 20 x-ray and 18 nuclear medicine examination types. The average effective dose
for each examination was assessed by patient dose surveys and calculations (using conversion
factors available from literature of NRPB software packages) for radiography, fluoroscopy

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
130
including interventional procedures and CT. The patient dose surveys in terms of suitable
dosimetric quantities have been performed in the recent years and published in the peer
reviewed journals or presented on the international conferences. Patient dose in NM procedures
was calculated from mean administered activities, using conversion factors published by the
ICRP.
9.6.23 SLOVAKIA
The last survey of population exposure from medical application of ionizing radiation was
conducted in the common work of Slovak and Czech public health professional bodies,
published by Kodl and Šnobr in Čsl. Radiologie 42,1988,54.
In Slovakia, the survey conducted in the framework of DDM project is the first one conducted
on the basis of the EC Report No.154/2008 and started by the Institute of Radiation Protection,
together with the Slovak Medical University.
In 2009 there were 3500 healthcare providers in Slovakia having the licenses to run an X-ray
unit, covering the hospital departments and medical practices (incl.dentists).
Slovakia has a national radiological procedures code system for categorization of procedures
(x-ray and NM procedures), which is applied in our survey.
The frequency data were collected by two sources of information:
the National Health Information Centre and
the main Slovak Health Insurance Companies, covering about 80% of all diagnostic
examinations, as well as the examinations of nuclear medicine.
For the dose assessment, the DQC module have been installed in the 15% of the Slovak
hospitals and departments of radiology, covering in the total about 1 Mil selected examinations
per year.
In Dose Datamed II study, 67 142 selected examinations are presented, divided into the
following X-ray modalities:
9 374 CT examinations (mean Eff.dose 16,7 mSv for abdomen examinations)
23 785 conventional examinations (plain film screen and digital radiography)
31 914 mammographies (film and digital with mean AGD=1,44 mGy)
389 examinations of intervention radiology
1 023 PET-CT procedures (Eff. dose 14 mSv) and 657 gamma scanner examinations of NM
For the above monitored procedures, all exposition parameters were collected and the
individual as well as the average effective doses were assessed by using the new conversion
coefficients and the methods recommended by the ICRP.
For all monitored examinations, included in the DDM report, also the radiation outputs were
available for the x-ray units involved, as well as the results of the last Acceptance tests and the
protocols of the Tests of long term stability.
9.6.24 SLOVENIA
The frequency data was collected by the Slovenian Radiation Protection Administration in 2011

via questionnaires to the healthcare providers. The response rate was 100% for NM and about
2/3 (representing approximately 90% of the total workload in Slovenia) for X-ray. The missing
frequencies for X-ray were estimated from data collected during licensing procedures and/or
from insurance database. Data were gathered for TOP20 X-ray procedures and for over 40 NM
procedures. The average effective dose for all examination was determined from
measurements of the relevant quantities on a number of patients during regular practice. Data
were collected in the past few years and are available for approximately 2/3 of institutions
performing plain film radiography (DAP per projection), all mammography units (MGD from
phantom measurements) and all units performing PTCA, for about 80% of CT units (DLP per

Annexes
131
phase) but is scarce for fluoroscopy, except for cardiac angiography (known for all units).
Measured quantities were converted to the effective dose using conversion factors available
from the literature. For nuclear medicine effective doses were calculated from mean
administered activities using conversion factors provided by DDMED2 project or from the
literature.
9.6.25 SPAIN
An intensive population dose and frequency survey for x-ray procedures (plain radiography,
fluoroscopy, CT and interventional radiology) and NM procedures have been developed
(DOPOES and DOMNES projects supported by the Nuclear Safety Council (CSN) and the
Ministry of Health of Spain).
X-Ray Procedures
The data provided included 5 Spanish regions (Andalucia, Murcia, Extremadura, Castilla La
Mancha y Aragón) accounting for approximately 40% of the Spain population. The number of
codes was obtained from the RIS-PACS systems; in each hospital selected and grouped in
TOP_20 according to the RP154 European Guidance. We used several dose quantities like
entrance surface dose (ESD) or the dose-area product (DAP) for simple radiography, the total
dose-area product for fluoroscopy examinations, and the dose-length product (DLP) for CT
examinations, and MGD (mean glandular dose) in Mammography. For all X-ray procedures the
effective dose were estimated following the recommendations of the RP 154 report.
Nuclear Medicine
The frequency data from NM was collected for year 2011 by questionnaires carried out by the
DOMNES consortium and the questionnaires were distributed to all NM departments (167) and
70% of them provide data. Effective doses were estimated from mean administered activities
using conversion factors published by the ICRP.
9.6.26 SWEDEN
The last population dose survey in Sweden was conducted in 2008 for x-ray procedures (plain
radiography, fluoroscopy, CT and interventional radiology) and 2010 for NM procedures.
Frequency data from all x-ray procedures during 2008 were collected from a sample of hospitals
in Sweden. From each hospital, data was retrieved from the local radiological information
systems (RIS) comprising local RIS codes, examination description and number of
examinations. Most, but not all local RIS codes corresponded to the national coding system.
Non-matching codes could be identified by checking the description of examination given
together with the code. By this time consuming procedure a rather complete estimate of the
frequencies for the TOP 20 examinations could be performed. Frequency data from the sample
was scaled up to represent the whole country by using information from a national survey from
2005. Data for all NM procedures are collected each year and contains for each procedure;
frequency, used isotope and administrated mean activity.
In 2008 all Swedish hospitals reported the patient doses for 12 x-ray examinations, as the
average for approximately 20 normal sized patients for every examination room. These
examinations correspond to 11 of the TOP 20 categories and hence the average of the radiation
doses reported was taken as the national dose value for the respective examination. For the
remaining 9 categories, tabulated dose values from the RP154 were used. Patient dose for NM
procedures was calculated using reported mean activities and conversion factors published by
ICRP.
9.6.27 SWITZERLAND
The last survey in Switzerland was conducted in 1998 and the annual effective dose from
medical radiology was estimated to be 1 mSv/capita. For the national survey performed in the
country for collecting the 2008 data, an online database (www.raddose.ch) was developed. All
healthcare providers who hold a license to run an X-ray unit in the country were invited to
participate in the survey by sending their annual frequency data. In 2008, there were 17,391 X-
ray units in use by 8,247 healthcare providers (hospital departments, medical and dental

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
132
practices). Following the recommendations of the EC RP154 Report, more than 225
examinations, covering eight radiological modalities, were included in the survey. The average
effective dose for each examination was reassessed by audits and surveys for radiography and
CT examinations and recent bibliographic data for all other modalities. Data from about 3,500
users were collected (42% response rate; 45% in terms of X-ray units) and extrapolated to
cover the whole country according to the number of X-ray units, taking also into account the
type of healthcare provider.
9.6.28 UKRAINE
The last population dose survey in Ukraine was conducted in 2009-2011 for X-ray procedures
and in 2009 - for nuclear medicine (NM) procedures.
Method of frequency collection
The frequency data for X-ray and NM procedures was collected using method of questionnaire
survey carried out by Grigoriev Institute of Medical Radiology in 2009-2011 and in according to
data of the Medical Statistic Centre of MoH of Ukraine for 2009. The questionnaires about
annual frequency data of diagnostic procedures were sent to the Regional Body of MoH for
regional radiology department that are responsible for statistical data of survey. Participation in
questioning was accepted by 24 from 27 Regions of Ukraine that covered the information about
85 % procedures in Diagnostic Radiology. All Ukrainian laboratories and departments of NM
have been covered by survey. In the review of DDM2 Ukraine presented the data about the 22
types of X-ray and 15 types of NM procedures.
At present in Ukraine there is not national coding system of diagnostic researches.
Method of estimating the mean (typical) effective dose (for plain radiography, fluoroscopy, CT
and interventional radiology)
The average effective dose for all type of radiographic procedures has been estimated by a
calculation method with the Program ODS-60 (Finland) using the data of ionization dosimetry.
The average effective dose for fluorography has been estimated by phantom modeling and
using the average values of ESDs from measurements in different hospitals.
For all other X-ray procedures: fluoroscopy, CT, angiography, interventional procedures, the
effective doses were estimated following the recommendations and data of the EC RP154
Report. The estimation of effective doses in NM was spent by calculation from mean
administered activities (data from questionnaire), using conversion factors published by the
ICRP (data from EC RP154 Report).
9.6.29 UNITED KINGDOM
The latest population dose surveys in the UK were conducted in 2008 for X-ray procedures and
2004 for nuclear medicine procedures. In 2008 the Health Protection Agency collected X-ray
frequency data for 231 examinations and interventional procedures from a sample of National
Health Service hospitals in England. The total number of X-ray examinations and procedures in
the UK, in both the state and private sectors, was estimated to be 46 million. The average
effective dose for most of the X-ray examinations was calculated from measurements of
entrance surface dose or dose-area product contained in the National Patient Dose Database.
Doses for CT were provided by a national survey for 2003. Where no data on an examination
was available, a dose was estimated either from a similar type of examination, or taken from the
literature.
In 2004 a questionnaire was sent to every known nuclear medicine centre in the UK, and a 66%
response rate was achieved.

Annexes
133
Table A6.1. Basic data for national surveys of population dose for x-ray procedures
Country Survey Date
(year)
Population
millions
Source of
frequency
data (CA,
HP, HI, OT)*
Sample covered Scaled up to
whole country
based on
Number
of exam
types
Dental
included
(yes/no)
Age/sex
data
(yes/no)
Method to
determine
effective
dose per
exam
Uncertainty
estimate
provided
(yes/no)
1 Austria 8,7
2
Belgium
2010 10,8 CA 100% - 70 yes no Meas+calc
+literature
no
3 Bosnia and
Herzegovina
4,6
4
Bulgaria
2010
Frequency;
2007 – 2008
Dose
7,535 CA >95% of the
health centers
no 50 yes Partially
(3 age
groups:
(0-15);
(16-40);
(>40 y)
Calc+meas
+literature
yes
5
Croatia
2010
Frequency;
2008 – 2010
Dose
4,4 HP, HI 100,00% - 20 No Partially Calc+meas
+literature
Y
6
Czech
Republic
2006-2011 10,5 HI, OT HI 60 % of
population
OT 100 % of
performed
exams
linear
extrapolation
to whole
population
Top 20 yes yes Conv.
Coeff. EC
RP 154,
calculation
s
no
7
Denmark
2008
Frequency ;
2010 Dose
5,7
8
Estonia
2010 1,3 HP 53% 20 No No literature rough
estimate,
foreign data
only
9
Finland
2008 5,4 CA 100 % - 225+ Partially Partially Calc+meas
+literature
yes
10
France
2007 65,6 CA 12 % of X rays
dept
Examination
number
269 yes yes Calc+meas
+literature
yes
11
Germany
2009 81,8 HI (out-pat.),
HP (in-pat.)
100% (op), 25%
(ip)
Number of in-
patients
About
70
Yes Only for
in-
patients
Calc+meas
+literature
yes
12
Greece
2003-2005 10,96 HP 20% Weighted
extrapolation
45 No No Calc+meas
+literature
rough
estimate
13 Hungary 2010 9,9

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
134
Country Survey Date
(year)
Population
millions
Source of
frequency
data (CA,
HP, HI, OT)*
Sample covered Scaled up to
whole country
based on
Number
of exam
types
Dental
included
(yes/no)
Age/sex
data
(yes/no)
Method to
determine
effective
dose per
exam
Uncertainty
estimate
provided
(yes/no)
14
Iceland
2008 0,32 CA 100 % TOP20 yes no Calc+literat
ure
Yes
15 Ireland 2010 5,4
16
Italy
2006 60,6 HP 100%** Linear
extrapolation
to whole
population
From
18 to
45
no Some
regions
Calc +
meas+
literature
yes
17 Latvia 2010 2,2 - 0% - - no no no
18
Lithuania
2010 3,2 CA 20.9 % of X-ray
units
Number of x-
ray units
19 No No Calculation
s +
measurem
ents +
literature
Yes (rough
estimate)
19 Luxembourg 2009 0,6
20 Former
Yugoslav
Republic of
Macedonia
2010 2,0 CA 67% X-Ray;
100% NM
Number of X-
ray units
20 No No Calc+meas
+literature
Yes
(DDM2
team)
21 Malta 2011 0,4
29 Republic of
Moldova
2010 3,57 CA 49% of x-ray
institutions
Number of x-
ray institutions
Top 20 Yes No x-ray:
Calc+meas
Yes
22
Montenegro
2010 0,67 HP 100% - - no partialy Meas+calc
+literature
yes
23 Netherlands 2009 16,9
24 Norway 2008 4,7
25 Poland 2010 38
26
Portugal
2010 10,6 CA, HP 45% 20 no no Meas+liter
ature+calc
yes
27 Republic of
Belarus
9,65
28 Republic of
Cyprus
2011 1,0
29 Romania 2010 20,8
30
Serbia
2009/2010 7,123 OT Clinical Centers
(50%), Clinical
hospitals (75%),
General
hospitals (48%),
and Small health
Number of
hospitals
which were
distributed in 5
categories
according to
20 No No Literature,
calculation
s and
measurem
ents
Yes

Annexes
135
Country Survey Date
(year)
Population
millions
Source of
frequency
data (CA,
HP, HI, OT)*
Sample covered Scaled up to
whole country
based on
Number
of exam
types
Dental
included
(yes/no)
Age/sex
data
(yes/no)
Method to
determine
effective
dose per
exam
Uncertainty
estimate
provided
(yes/no)
centers(8%),
Average: 18% in
terms of health
institutions, it
terms of x-ray
units rough
assessment
would be 40%
their size
(Clinical
Centers,
Clinical
hospitals,
General
hospital, and
Small health
centers)
31
Slovakia
2010 5,4 HP,HI 15% of
Radiology
Departments
yes Top 20 No Yes Calc+meas
+literature
No
32
Slovenia
2011 2,1 CA, HP 100% / 20 No No Measurem
ents +
conversion
factors
Yes
(estimate)
33 Spain 2010 51,1
34
Sweden
2008 9,2 HP 20% of
examinations
Information
from a
complete
survey from
2005
20 no no Meas+
litterature
Yes (rough
estimate
35
Switzerland
2008 7,7 HP 45% of x-ray
units
Number of x-
ray units
225+ Yes No Calculation
s +
literature
Yes (rough
estimate)
36 Turkey 70,6
37 Ukraine 2011 45,1
38
United
Kingdom
2008 61 HP 8% of x-ray
exams
Total number
of x-ray exams
231 Yes No Calc +
Measure +
Literature
Yes
*CA: Central authority (ministry of public health, radiation protection agency, etc.); HP: Healthcare providers (hospitals, practices, etc.); HI: Health insurance companies; OT: Others
** for the 5 Italian regions (out of 21) representing 32% of the Country population

Annexes
137
Table A6.2. Basic data for national surveys of population dose for NM procedures
Country Survey Date
(year)
Population
millions
Source of frequency
data (CA, HP, HI, OT)*
Sample covered Scaled up to whole
country based on
Number of exam
types
Age/sex data
(yes/no)
1 Austria 2009 8,7
2 Belgium 2010 10,8 CA /HP 66% no 70 no
3 Bosnia and
Herzegovina
4,6
4
Bulgaria
2010 7,535 CA 100% - 34 2 categories of
reporting:
Adults/ children
5 Croatia 2010 4,4 HP, HI 100,00% - 28 Partially
6
Czech Republic
2009 10,5 HI 60 % of
population
linear extrapolation
to whole population
86 without PET yes
7 Denmark 2010 5,7
8 Estonia 2010 1,3 HP 100% - No
9 Finland 2009 5,4 CA 100 % - No
10
France
2007 65,6 CA 72 % Examination
number
108 No
11
Germany
2009
Frequendies;
2007 – 2008
Activities
81,8 HI 100% - 25 Yes
12
Greece
2009
Frequencies;
2006 – 2009
Activities
10,96 HP >86% Weighted
extrapolation
14 No
13 Hungary 2010 9,9
14 Iceland 2009 0,32 CA 100 % - 20 No
15 Ireland 2010 5,4
16
Italy
2006 60,6 HP 100%** Linear extrapolation
to whole population
From 18 to 45 no
17 Latvia 2010 2,2 HP >99% - 13 no
18
Lithuania
2010
Frequencies
;
2011
Activities
3,2
19
Luxembourg
2009
Frequencies
;
2011
Activities
0,6

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
138
Country Survey Date
(year)
Population
millions
Source of frequency
data (CA, HP, HI, OT)*
Sample covered Scaled up to whole
country based on
Number of exam
types
Age/sex data
(yes/no)
20
Macedonia
2010 2,0 CA 67% X-Ray; 100%
NM
Number of X-ray
units
20 No
21 Malta 2010 0,4
22 Republic of
Moldova
2010 3.57 CA 80% of NM
institutions
Number of NM
institutions
Top 20 No, but possible
23 Montenegro 2010 0,62
24
Netherlands
2009
Freqencies ;
2008
Activities
16,9
25 Norway 2008 4,7
26 Poland 2010 38
27 Portugal 2010 11,1
28 Republic of
Belarus
9,65
29 Republic of
Cyprus
2011 1,0
293
0 Romania
2009 20,8
30
Serbia
2010 7,123 OT 67% Number of NM
departments
according to
number of gamma
cameras
18 No
32 Slovakia 2010 5,4 HP,HI 15% No Yes
33 Slovenia 2010 2,1 CA, HP 100% / 36 No
34 Spain 2010 51,1
35 Sweden 2010 9,3 HP 100% - 90 no
36 Switzerland 7,7
37 Turkey 70,6
38 Ukraine 45,1
39 United Kingdom 2004 60 HP 66% Gamma cameras 151 No
*CA: Central authority (ministry of public health, radiation protection agency, etc.); HP: Healthcare providers (hospitals, practices, etc.); HI: Health insurance companies; OT: Others
** for the 5 Italian regions (out of 21) representing 32% of the Country population.

Annexes
139
9.7 Annex 7 - SUMMARY OF THE RESULTS OF THE GENERAL
QUESTIONNAIRE ON THE AVAILABILITY OF FREQUENCY AND
POPULATION DOSE DATA
For completeness of reporting, the results of the first general questionnaire of the DDM2 project,
on the availability of frequency and population dose data, have been summarized in this Annex.
However, conducting the questionnaires, organizing the training course and all other actions
within this project have had a tremendous impact on the development of population dose
estimations also in those European countries which had little or no previous experiences on this
topic (see Section 4.4). In consequence, the data in this Annex has become partly out of date.
The present status of population dose estimations (organization, methods) in several countries
has been summarized in Annex 6, while the results of the latest estimation for the European
population dose have been presented and discussed in Section 5.
9.7.1 Availability of data on x-ray procedures
9.7.1.1 Availability of the frequencies of x-ray procedures
Figure 7.1 shows that in 27 countries (69%) the frequencies of x-ray procedures were available.
Figure 7.1. Percentage of countries where the frequency of X-ray examination were available
or not
9.7.1.2 Types / categories of x-ray procedures
Figure 7.2 shows the number of types / categories of x-ray procedures for which frequency data
were available in each country. The number is higher than 200 in 8 countries. In 10 countries it is
between 20 and 200 and in 8 countries it is less than 20.
Yes
69 %
No
23 %
N/A
8 %

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
140
Figure 7.2. Number of types / categories of x-ray procedures for which frequency data were
available
9.7.1.3 Years of collections
Among the 26 countries who gave information on the years of collections of the frequency data,
23 have collected data in 2008 or onwards. At least 8 countries could have provided
frequencies for 2009-2010.
9.7.1.4 Coverage of total data
Figure 7.3 shows the coverage of the total data, i.e. how many x-ray facilities (in percent of the
total number) were covered by the frequency survey. Among the countries that provided
information 18 assure coverage higher than 50%, 9 of them have a full coverage (100%).
Figure 7.3. Percentage of countries with a coverage of the total data amounting to 0%-20%,
20%-40%,40%-60%, 60%-80% and 80%-100%.
80 50
90
195
31
768
214
70 45
200
30 3
200
2 17
200 225
4
50
5
43
6 20
225
18
231

AT BG CZ DK EE FI FR DE EL IS IT LT LU MK MT NL NO PT BY CY RO RS SE CH UA UK
0.0-0.2
10 %
0.2-0.4
5 %
0.4-0.6
8 %
0.6-0.8
5 %
0.8-1.0
36 %
N/A
36 %

Annexes
141
9.7.1.5 Sources of data
Among the countries that provided information on the source of the frequency data for X-ray
modalities, surveys using questionnaires seemed to be the most commonly used source,
followed by RIS/PACS systems, then health authorities and insurance companies (Figure 7.4).
In some cases two methods were used: questionnaire and RIS/PACS or insurance company
and RIS/PACS. A couple of countries used their legislative tools to get the data that is either
collected during the testing of the equipment or are fed into a national registry.
Figure 7.4. Percentage of the various sources of frequency data
9.7.2 Availability of patient dose data for x-ray procedures
9.7.2.1 Availability
Half of the countries (19) had patient effective doses for each type of x-ray procedure, as shown
in Figure 7.5.
Figure 7.5. Percentage of countries with typical patient effective doses determined for each
type of x-ray procedure (left) and for a limited number of types of x-ray procedures, formed by
suitable grouping of all types of x-ray procedures (right)
Questio-
nnaire
22 %
RIS/PACS
15 %
Health
authorities
12 %
Insurance
12 %
Others
7 %
N/A
32 %
Yes
50 %
No
42 %
N/A
8 %Yes
18 %
No
23 % N/A
59 %

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
142
7 countries (almost 1 out of 5) had patient effective doses for a limited number of types of x-ray
procedures, formed by suitable grouping of all types of x-ray procedures. The number of these
limited types was 150 in BE, 50 in BY, 30 in IT, 18 in RS, 12 in SE, 3 in EL and 1 in IE.
9.7.2.2 Methods of dose determination
Figure 7.6 shows the relative proportion of the three possible methods for dose determination:
(1) measurement, i.e. measurement of a practical quantity (KAP, DLP etc) and conversion to
effective dose by published conversion factors, (2) calculation, i.e. calculation of effective dose
by Monte Carlo (e.g. using a commercial software PCXMC, CTEXPO) or other software, and (3)
literature, i.e. taking the effective dose from published literature. The relative proportion of
methods is shown separately for general radiography (plain film or projection radiography),
computed tomography, and fluoroscopy and interventional radiology. Nine countries did not
provide information on the method of dose determination: CZ, EE, LV, LU, ME, PT, MD, ES and
TR.
For radiography, 10 countries relied either exclusively or mainly on measurements, 7 countries
relied either exclusively or mainly on calculations. The others used a combination of methods.
Concerning computed tomography 17 countries (60%) relied mainly on measurements; 4 relied
mainly on calculations and 3 mainly on literature. The remaining countries used a combination
of these methods.
0 %
20 %
40 %
60 %
80 %
100 %
AT
BE
BA
BG
HR
CZ
DK
FI
FR
DE
EL
HU
IS
IE
IT
LT
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
BY
CY
RO
RS
SK
SI
SE
CH
UA
UK
Radiography
Literature
Calculation
Measurement
0 %
20 %
40 %
60 %
80 %
100 %
AT
BE
BA
BG
HR
CZ
DK
FI
FR
DE
EL
HU
IS
IE
IT
LT
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
BY
CY
RO
RS
SK
SI
SE
CH
UA
UK
Computed tomography
Literature
Calculation
Measurement

Annexes
143
Figure 7.6. Percentage of countries using measurement, calculation or literature for dose
determination in the case of radiography, computed tomography, fluoroscopy and interventional
radiology.
Regarding fluoroscopy and interventional radiology, most countries relied mainly on
measurements (15) or on literature (7). Only one country relied on calculations. The rest used a
combination of methods.
9.7.3 Availability of data for nuclear medicine procedures
9.7.3.1 Availability of the frequencies of NM procedures
Fig.7.7 shows that in 29 countries (74%) the frequencies of nuclear medicine procedures were
available.
Figure 7.7. Percentage of countries where the frequency of NM examination is available or
not.
9.7.3.2 Types / categories of NM procedures
Figure 7.8 shows the number of types/categories of nuclear medicine procedures for which
frequency data was available. The number of categories was higher than 50 in 8 countries. In 7
countries it was between 20 and 50 and in 13 countries it was less than 20.
0 %
20 %
40 %
60 %
80 %
100 %
AT
BE
BA
BG
HR
CZ
DK
FI
FR
DE
EL
HU
IS
IE
IT
LT
MK
MT
NL
NO
PL
BY
CY
RO
RS
SK
SI
SE
CH
UA
UK
Fluoroscopy + Interventional Radiology
Literature
Calculation
Measurement
Yes
74 %
No
18 %
N/A
8 %

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
144
Figure 7.8. Number of types / categories of nuclear medicine procedures
9.7.3.3 Availability of the administered activities
Figure 7.9 shows that in 28 countries (72%) typical data of administrated activities were
collected for each type of nuclear medicine diagnostic procedure.
Figure 7.9. Percentage of countries where the data of administrated activity for each type of
NM procedure were available.
9.7.3.4 Years of collections
Among the 28 countries who gave information on the years of collections of the frequencies of
nuclear procedures, 23 had collected data for 2008 onwards and 10 countries could provide
frequencies for 2010.
9.7.3.5 Coverage of total data
Figure 7.10 shows the coverage of total data, i.e. how many NM facilities (in percent of the total
number) were covered by the frequency survey. Among the countries that provided information,
24 assured coverage higher than 50%; 18 of them had a full coverage (100%).
10
34 40
80
150
33
175
97
40
14
84
34
10
1 1 1 2
90
10
1
8 2
21 25 30
89
30
5
151
AT BG HR CZ DK EE FI FR DE EL HU IS IT LT LU MK MT NL NO PT BY CY RO RS SI SE CH UA UK
Yes
72 %
No
20 %
N/A
8 %

Annexes
145
Figure 7.10. Percentage of countries with a coverage of the total data amounting to 0%-25%,
25%-50%, 50%-75% and 75%-100%.
9.7.3.6 Sources of data
Among the countries that provided information about the source of the frequency data for
nuclear medicine, the most frequently used source of information was surveys using
questionnaires, followed by RIS/PACS systems, then health authorities and insurance
companies (Figure 7.11). In some cases two methods were used: questionnaire and RIS/PACS
or insurance company and RIS/PACS. A couple of countries used their legislative tools to get
the data that was either collected during the testing of the equipment or was fed into a national
registry.
Figure 7.11. Percentage of the various sources of frequency data
9.7.3.7 Conversion factors for effective dose calculation
Figure 7.12 shows that in 21 countries (54%) the effective dose was calculated for each nuclear
medicine procedure with a given radionuclide, using published conversion factors (effective
dose/activity).
0-0.25
3 %
0.25-0.5
5 %
0.5-75
15 %
0.75-1
46 %
N/A
31 %
Questio-
nnaire
32 %
RIS/PACS
14 %
Health
authorities
5 %
Insurance
7 %
Others
10 %
N/A
32 %

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
146
Figure 7.12. Percentage of countries where the effective dose was calculated or not for each
NM examination.
9.7.4 Availability of population dose estimations
9.7.4.1 Diagnostic and interventional x-ray procedures
Figure 7.13 shows that in 24 countries (61%) population dose estimation was performed for x-
ray procedures, in 21 countries on a national basis and in 3 countries on a regional basis.
Figure 7.13. Percentage of countries where population dose estimation was performed for x-ray
procedures (left) and percentage of countries that performed population dose estimation on a
national or regional basis (right).
9.7.4.2 Nuclear medicine procedures
Figure 7.14 shows that in 17 countries (43%) population dose estimation was performed for
nuclear medicine procedures, in 16 countries on a national basis and in 1 country on a regional
basis.
Yes
54 %
No
38 %
N/A
8 %
Yes
61 %
No
31 %
N/A
8 %
National
54 %
Regional
8 %
N/A
38 %

Annexes
147
Figure 7.14. Percentage of countries where population dose estimation was performed for
nuclear medicine procedures (left) and percentage of countries that performed population dose
estimation on a national or regional basis (right).
9.7.4.3 Years of estimations
For both x-ray and nuclear medicine procedures, among the 23 countries that provided
information on the years of population dose estimations all had recent estimations (last five
years).
15 countries did provide information on the years of population dose estimations: BE, HR, CZ,
HU, LV, LU, ME, PL, PT, CY, MD, SK, SI, ES and TR.
Yes
43 %
No
49 %
N/A
8 %
National
41 %
Regional
3 %
N/A
56 %

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
148
9.8 Annex 8 - TYPICAL EUROPEAN AGE/SEX DISTRIBUTIONS
FOR TOP 20 X-RAY EXAMINATIONS OF PATIENTS
The figures shown in this annex (Fig. 8.1) are typical age/sex distributions data for the ‘Top 20
Exams’ from four countries namely HR, DK, FR and SK. The distributions are based on the
average data from these four countries, weighted according to the sample size in each country
as shown in Table 7.1 (Section 7.1). The data are divided into five-year age bands and the
percentage that is indicated for each band and each gender is taken with respect to the total
number of examinations carried out on both male and female patients in these four countries.
These percentages are also presented numerically in the legend of each figure.
It is suggested that these typical European data can provide a useful guide to the age and sex
distributions for these important types and categories of examination that can be used by any
European country to relate collective doses to collective detriment, in the absence of more
reliable national data. For further information see also annex 3 of the European Guidance on
Estimating Population Dose from Medical X-ray Procedures (RP154; EC 2008).

Annexes
149

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
150

Annexes
151

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
152
* Averaged values from HR, DK and SK only

Annexes
153

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
154

Annexes
155

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
156

Annexes
157
* Averaged values from HR, DK and SK only

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
158
* Averaged values from HR, DK and SK only
Figure 8.1. Averaged European age/sex distributions for the Top 20 x-ray examinations of
patients

Annexes
159
9.9 Annex 9 - GUIDANCE ON THE INTERPRETATIONS OF RP154
IN CATEGORISATION OF CODES
This Annex discuss the interpretation of the “European Guidance on Estimating Population
Doses from Medical X-ray procedures” (RP154) concerning how to categorize and count the
X-ray examinations, as communicated to the national contact points during the DDM2 project.
There is no harmonised or common radiological classification system in Europe established by
the radiological society. Different countries have their national systems that may serve several
purposes; i) to monitor operation and trends in radiology (all modalities), ii) as part of the
reimbursement system (to reflect complexity and costs), and iii) to assess trends in population
doses (Xray, CT, nuclear medicine). For the latter, the examination frequencies have to be
matched with appropriate dose values. Guidance in this respect has been provided by the
European Commission in the Dose DataMed 1 (DDM1) project (2004 – 2007), published as
Radiation Protection Report 154 (RP154), and has been tested in Dose DataMed 2 (DDM2)
project (2011 – 2012) (www.ddmed.eu).
The detailed level in the national radiological classification systems in Europe has shown to be
very different. The guidance RP154 represents a commendable attempt to establish a common
approach for categorizing the examinations, so that the frequencies may be compared between
countries. However, since the purpose of the RP154 guideline is to estimate the population
doses on a national level, the methodology is only applicable to modalities based on ionising
radiation (x-ray, CT), and less described for nuclear medicine.
9.9.1 The RP154 methodology for categorization of X-ray examinations
‘An x-ray examination or interventional procedure is defined as one or a series of x-ray
exposures of one anatomical region/organ/organ system, using a single imaging modality (i.e.
radiography/ fluoroscopy or CT), needed to answer a specific diagnostic problem or clinical
question, during one visit to the radiology department, hospital or clinic’ [RP 154].
RP154 provides three optional methods to estimate the population dose, namely based on: i)
225 specific examination types, ii) 72 broader categories of examinations, or 3) a list of 20
examination recognized to be most important for the total population dose; the “TOP20”. Only
the two first methods give an estimate of the total population dose. The examinations or
categories are systemized according to the four modalities: Plain film radiography,
Radiography& Fluoroscopy, CT and Interventional procedures. In addition the list of
examinations or categories is sorted according to regions of the body or organ system
(Table 9.1).
Table 9.1. The number of specific examinations and categories of examinations according to the
RP154 methodology
PLAIN FILM RADIOGRAPHY (RP154 Chap 3 Table 2)
72 specific examinations – 27 categories of examinations
Regions of body; head, neck, chest/thorax, abdomen, pelvis, limbs, trunk,
head&trunk, teeth&gums, breast
RADIOGRAPHY (RP154 Chap 3 Table 3)
57 specific examinations – 17 categories of examinations
GI tract, bilary tract, uro-genital tract, spinal cord, joints, angiography,
lymphangiography
COMPUTED TOMOGRAPHY (RP154 Chap 3 Table 4)
52 specific examinations – 18 categories of examinations
Head, neck, chest, abdomen, pelvis, neck+chest+abdomen, chest+abdomen,
abdomen+pelvis, chest+abdomen+pelvis, limbs
INTERVENTIONAL PROCEDURES (RP154 Chap 3 Table 5)
38 specific examinations – 10 categories of examinations
Head&neck, chest, abdomen, pelvis, limbs

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
160
The list of the identified examinations that contributed mostly to the collective effective dose in
2002, the TOP20 list, is shown in Table 9.2. The importance of various examinations will vary
between countries and change over time. The list as such may however be useful to follow
trends and compare countries in a consistent way. Furthermore, in fact these examinations are
in some respect categories of examinations as well. Appendix 1 to RP154 provides four tables
(A 1.1 – A 1.4) that list the indications for each of the TOP20 examinations. It appears then that
the procedures may vary considerably, i.e. these procedures may represent many different
codes in the national classification or code system.
The three optional methods in the RP154 open for a variety of questions. It is of great concern
that the national contact points interpret the methodology in the same way, so that the national
frequencies can be compared unbiased and without great uncertainties. Is there always a clear
and unique key between a TOP20 examination type, a group of 225 exams or a 72 category of
examinations? To guide the national contact points in the DDM2 project (2010 – 12) the excel
templates were designed to fill inn data, and references were made to RP154 guidelines in the
sheets. A list of questions and proposed answers were prepared in advance, they are
reproduced in the following. In fact very few contact points did ask questions in how to interpret
the RP154 guidelines, which is somehow precarious. Most countries in the DDM2 project
applied the TOP20 methodology alone to estimate the collective effective dose. The
interpretation of a certain TOP20 exam has to do with the allocation of an appropriate dose
figure as well; a dose figure that reflects the variety of procedures involved.

Annexes
161
Table 9.2. The list of the types of X-ray based examinations that contributed most significant to
the population dose in 2002 [RP 154]
9.9.2 A list of prearranged questions provided to the national contact points
All questions refer to the “European Guidance on Estimating Population Doses from Medical X-
ray procedures” (RP154) on how to interpret a specific “TOP20” examination. All national
contact points were urged to go into their national radiological classification or code system to
find out which of the specific 225 examination types, or 72 examination categories, should be
included in the “TOP20” type. We did not address all TOP20 examinations, only those there
could be confusions or interpretations.
9.9.2.1 Radiography of Chest
Common indications for the “TOP20” examination Nr.1. Chest/lung are provided in Appendix 1
to RP154 Table A1.1 PLAIN FILM RADIOGRAPHY (without contrast media):
Exam type
or category
% of total
frequency*
% of
total S*
Plain film radiography
1. Chest/thorax 12 - 29 0.7 – 5.2
2. Cervical spine 2.0 – 5.4 0.05 – 2.3
3. Thoracic spine 1.0 – 3.1 0.5 – 3.7
4. Lumbar spine (inc. LSJ) 2.8 – 9.6 2.0 - 17
5. Mammography 0.3 – 15 0.6 – 4.7
6. Abdomen 1.1 – 4.3 1.1 – 4.7
7. Pelvis & hip 6.3 – 10 2.8 – 9.4
Radiography/Fluoroscopy
8. Ba meal 0.3 – 0.9 0.8 – 5.9
9. Ba enema 0.1 – 2.0 0.5 - 13
10. Ba follow 0.05 – 0.3 0.2 – 1.6
11. IVU 0.3 – 2.0 1.2 – 8.7
12. Cardiac angiography 0.2 – 1.3 1.0 – 9.9
All angiography 1.1 – 2.4 6.4 - 16
CT
13. CT head 1.8 – 5.4 3.0 – 7.9
14. CT neck 0.06 – 0.9 0.1 – 1.1
15. CT chest 0.5 – 1.5 6.1 - 12
16. CT spine 0.3 – 2.8 1.5 - 13
17. CT abdomen 0.01 – 3.0 1.9 - 26
18. CT pelvis 0.03 – 1.5 0.3 – 9.7
19. CT trunk 0.1 – 5.6 1.1 - 27
All CT 4.5 – 15 28 - 59
Interventional
20. PTCA 0.1 – 0.3 0.5 – 3.6

All interventional 0.2 – 1.3 3.5 - 14
TOTAL 1-20 50-70 70-90

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
162
Exam Type Specific exams
included in
“Exam type”
Common
technique
Common indications
1. Chest/lung Lungs & ribs
Thoracic inlet
PA radiograph
LAT radiograph
Adult pneumonia, chest pain,
pericarditis, pleural effusion,
pneumothorax.
A LAT is taken after PA only if
necessary to locate a pulmonary
nodule or a hilar projection shadow
more precisely
From RP154 Chap 3/ Table 2: Plain film radiography:
Chest Thoracic spine Thoracis spine
Shoulder blades/ scapulae
Collar bone(s) / clavicle(s)
Acromio-clavicular joint
Sterno-clavicular joint
Manubrio-sternal joint
Sternum
Shoulder girdle
Ribs Ribs
Lung
Thoracic inlet
Bronchography
Chest/thorax/lung
Interpretation:
 In the Chest/Thorax regions there are eleven examinations specified and four
categories.
 TOP20 Chest/lung corresponds to 225 Ribs + Lung + Thoracic inlet
 TOP20 Chest/lung corresponds to 72 categories Ribs + Chest/thorax/lung
 Examinations involving the thoracic spine or shoulder girdle should not be counted as
part of TOP20 Chest/lung
 Bronchography should not be counted as part of TOP20 Chest/lung
9.9.2.2 Radiography of Pelvis & Hip
Common indications for “TOP20” examinations Nr.7. Pelvis&hip are provided in Appendix 1 to
RP154 Table A1.1 PLAIN FILM RADIOGRAPHY (without contrast media):
7. Pelvis & hip Pelvis
(one or both hips)
AP radiograph
or AP & LAT radiographs
Trauma, rheumatology,
dysplasia
From RP154 Chap 3/ Table 2: Plain film radiography:

Annexes
163
Pelvis Pelvis bones
- Illum/ischium
- Sacrum
- Sacro-iliac joint
- Coccyx
Pelvic bone
Pelvimetry (obstetric)
1 or both hips Hips
Pelvis (soft tissue) Pelvis (soft tissue)
Interpretation:
 In the Pelvic region there are eight examination specified, and three categories
 The indications listed for “TOP 20 Nr. 7 Pelvi & Hip” are quite general (trauma,
rheumatology, dysplasia), i.e.
 All eight exams and all three categories are part of the TOP 20 Nr. 7
9.9.2.3 Radiography/Fluoroscopy of the GI tract
Common indications for “TOP20” examinations Nr. 8, 9 and 10 Ba Meal, Ba enema and Ba
follow are provided in Appendix 1 to RP154 Table A1.2 RADIOGRAPHY/FLUOROSCOPY (use
of contrast media):
Exam type Specific exams
included in
“Exam type”
Common technique Common indications
8. Ba meal Ba meal
(stomach &
duodenum)
2-3 minutes
fluoroscopy
5-20 images
Preoperative analysis for certain
stomach lesions and for
postoperative monitoring after
gastric and oesophageal surgery
9. Ba enema Ba enema
(colon)
About 2 minutes
fluoroscopy
5-10 images
Inflammation, suspected tumour,
control after surgery and for
occlusive syndromes
10. Ba follow Ba follow
(small intestine)
Small bowel
enema
About 5 minutes
fluoroscopy
5-20 images
Small bowel disease (e.g. Crohn’s
disease, malabsorption syndromes)
From RP154 Chap 3/ Table 3 Radiography/fluoroscopy (excluding interventional procedures):
GI tract (Neck + chest +
abdomen)
Oesophagus (Ba swallow)
Stomach & duodenum (Ba meal)
Small intestine (Ba follow)
Enteroclysis (small intestine
enema)
Oesoph. & stomach & small
intestine
Colon (Ba enema) Colon
Defecography Defecography
Interpretation:
 For the gastro intestinal tract (GI) there are six examination specified, and three categories.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
164
 The indications listed for “TOP 20” Nr. 8 Ba meal and 10 Ba follow” ARE BOTH
INCLUDED IN “72 category” Oesophagus&stomack&small intestine”, i.e. in this case
you have more detailed information using the “TOP 20” approach.
 “TOP 20” Nr. 9 Ba enema corresponds to “72 category” Colon.
 Neither Enteroclysis (small intestine enema) nor Defecography should be counted as
part of the “TOP” methodology
9.9.2.4 CT in the Head region
Common indications for “TOP20” examination Nr.13. CT head are provided in Appendix 1 to
RP154 Table A1.3 COMPUTED TOMOGRAPHY:
Exam Type Specific exams included
in “Exam type”
Common
technique
Examples of indications
13. CT head Head, brain, facial
bones
With or
without
contrast
Brain lesion, acute stroke.
Chronic rhinosinusitis, nasal
obstruction,
nasosinusitis polyposis, anosmia.
Facial trauma.
Chronic inflammation of middle
ear, petrosal
bone trauma.
Congenital malformations.
From RP154 Chap 3/ Table 4 CT Examinations:
Head Skull
- Orbits
- Temporal bone
o Petrous bone
- Temporal mandibular joint
- Sella turcica
Face
Dental
Skull & facial bones
Brain
- Cerebrum
- Posterior fossa
- Brain vascular
Pituitary gland
Brain
Sinuses
Internal auditory meatus
Nasal cavity
Mouth
Head soft tissue
Interpretation:
 For CT examinations in the head region there are 17 examinations defined and three categories.
 From the list of indications it actually seems like the “TOP 20” Nr. 13 CT head involve all three
categories (scull&facial bones, brain, head soft tissue).
 However, it is interpreted that dental CT should not be counted as part of Nr.13. CT head.

Annexes
165
9.9.2.5 CT in the neck region
Common indications for “TOP20” examination Nr.14. CT neck are provided in Appendix 1 to
RP154 Table A1.3 COMPUTED TOMOGRAPHY:
Exam Type Specific exams included
in “Exam type”
Common technique Examples of indications
14. CT neck Soft tissue in neck,
cervical spine
No contrast Trauma, cervical pain/
neuralgia, medullary
compression syndrome,
extra- or intra-spinal tumors
From RP154 Chap 3/ Table 4 CT Examinations:
Region of body Specific exam types DOSE DATAMED exam categories
Neck Cervical spine Cervical spine
Neck
Larynx
Pharynx
Neck vascular
Neck
Interpretation:
 For CT examinations of the neck region there are five examinations defined and two
categories.
 From the list of indications you should interpret both category “Cervical spine” and
“Neck” as part of “TOP 20” Nr. 14 CT neck.
 No use of contrast for soft tissue indications?
9.9.2.6 CT in the chest/abdomen/pelvis region
Common indications for CT examinations in the trunk region are provided in Appendix 1 to
RP154 Table A1.3 COMPUTED TOMOGRAPHY:
15. CT chest Chest/thorax With or without
contrast
Std or high
resolution
Mediastinal/pleural/pulmonary
pathology.
Diffuse infiltrative lung disease,
bronchial diseases, lung cancer
16. CT spine CT of lumbosacral
spine
With or without
contrast
Trauma, lumbar pain,
lumboradiculalgia, sciatica, cauda
equina syndrome
17. CT abdomen Abdominal organs With or without
contrast
Cancer diagnosis and staging, infectious
lesions, inflammatory diseases, major
trauma.
Acute abdominal pain. Suspected
haemorrhage.
Chronic hepatic illness, liver metastases
or suspected obstruction of hepatic
vessels.
18. CT pelvis Pelvic bone &/or
organs
With or without
contrast
Cancer diagnosis and staging, location
of stones/lesions/tumours resulting in
obstruction of urinary channels.
Suspected extrinsic compression or
malformation of the urinary channels.
Pelvimetry.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
166
19. CT trunk CT of chest,
abdomen & pelvis
CT of thoracic/
abdominal aorta
With or without
contrast
With contrast
Metastases from unknown primary
tumour, lymphoma, trauma.
Thoracic/abdominal aorta disease:
aneurysm, occlusion, dissection,
inflammation, embolism, malformation.
From RP154 Chap 3/ Table 4 CT Examinations:
Chest Thoracic spine Thoracic spine
Mediastinum
Lungs standard
Lungs high resolution
Heart
Thoracic aorta
Lungs vascular
Abdomen Lumbar spine Lumbar spine
Full abdomen
Upper abdomen
Abdomen
Liver/ pancreas
Kidney/ Supra-renal glands
Liver, pancreas & kidneys
Pelvis Hip/ pelvic bone
Sacrum/ coccyx
Sacro-illac joint
Pelvic bones
Pelvimetry (obstetric) Pelvimetry
Pelvis (soft tissue/ vascular) Pelvis
Neck + chest + abdomen Full spine Full spine
Chest + abdomen Chest/ abdomen Chest & abdomen
Abdomen + pelvis Abdomen/pelvis Abdomen & pelvis
Chest + abdomen + pelvis Whole trunk Chest, abdomen & pelvis
Interpretation:
 There are in total 21 examinations defined and 11 categories for CT examinations in the
trunk region. They involve chest, abdomen and pelvis, however, some CT procedures
cover several regions of the trunk, even the neck region (“72 category” Full spine).
 “TOP 20” Nr. 15 CT chest corresponds to the “72 category” Chest/Thorax. NB The “72
category” Thoracic spine should neither be counted as part of Nr. 15 CT chest nor Nr.
16. CT spine.
 “TOP 20” Nr. 16 CT spine involves only CT of lumbar spine.> “TOP 20” Nr. 17 CT
abdomen should include both 72 category “abdomen” and “ Liver, pancreas&kidneys”.
 “TOP 20” exam Nr. 18. CT pelvis includes NB NB three categories of examinations:
Pelvic bones, Pelvimetry and Pelvis.
 “TOP 20” exam Nr. 19. CT trunk corresponds directly “72 category” Chest, abdomen &
pelvis.
 The “72 categories” Full spine, Chest & abdomen and Abdomen & pelvis open for
registration of CT procedures that cover several regions, but there is no “TOP 20”
examination which reflects those. This may be a problem, since it is very usual to do
Abdomen/Pelvis and register it as Abdomen.

Annexes
167
9.9.3 Categorisation of radiological procedures – further discussion
Experience from the DDM2 project indicates that certain issues should be addressed in revising
the European guidance RP154, generally:
 To understand the trends in radiology, both concerning frequency and collective
effective dose, the development of non-ionising modalities such as magnetic resonance
imaging (MR) and ultrasound (US) should be surveyed as well (Fig. 9.1).
 The introduction of multi-modality imaging equipment such as positron emission
tomography (PET) in combination with CT or MR must be taken into account in the
definition of what is considered as “One examination or procedure”.
 The examinations or categories are according to RP154 systemized into the four
modalities: Plain film radiography, Radiography& Fluoroscopy, CT and Interventional
procedures. Plain film radiography should be names “Plain radiography”. The
distinctiveness between “Plain radiography” and “Radiography&Fluoroscopy” is anyhow
subtle, since fluoroscopy on modern equipment often is used for positioning of the
patient.
 In addition the distinction between fluoroscopy, angiography and interventional
procedures may be difficult to sort out; these procedures may start as a diagnostic
procedure but transfer to an interventional one, as indicated from findings during patient
investigation.

Figure 9.1 Trends in examination frequency and population doses in Norway, 2002 – 2008.
More specifically to the interpretation of the categorization system, the development of new
technology and modalities will open for new procedures or changing the procedure itself.
Generally film based systems are faced out in Europe, and with digital imaging techniques there
is a trend towards more processing and three dimensional reconstruction (3D). That means the
definition of 225 specific examination or 72 broader categories must be updated and revised
from time to time. Obviously there is a need for radiological competence in the development of a
revised system. The following gives some input to the revision of the categorization:
Radiography examinations:
 How cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) examinations in the maxilla/facial region
are accounted for as opposed to the conventional dental imaging? CBCT should be
accounted as a new modality; it is not either a CT examination. And how about bone

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
168
densitometry examinations (DEXA) or imaging based on Compton scatter instead of
transmitted photons?
 The categorization of spine examinations is not obvious, as already discussed. You have
procedures involving almost all combinations of cervical-, thoracal- and lumbal columna
as well as the iliosacral joint. Some have certain codes for “total columna”, some use
several codes to reflect the same examination.
Radiography& Fluoroscopy:
 Fluoroscopy is currently being used for lots of new procedures, which do not have a
specific name in the RP154 “225 approach”, for example investigations of the neural
system (epidurography), investigations of abscess or fistulas, etc.
 There is a multitude of new angiograpy procedures, which do not have a specific names
in the RP154 “225 approach”, for example investigations of the arteries in the neck,
subclavia, mamm interna, as well as spinal angiography and 168rocedures168s arteries.
This applies to venography 168rocedures as well; investigations of the veins in the neck,
right side hart catheter, portal veins, cavernosography, etc.
 The categorization of angiography and venography examinations is all but obvious,
since such procedures will cover many regions of the body; head, neck, thorax,
abdomen, pelvis and/or limbs in all combinations.
Computed tomography (CT):
 With the introduction of helical multidetector CT (MDCT) with rapid tube rotation times
the procedures tend to be more comprehensive and may involve several contrast series.
In addition the post processing techniques and 3D modeling makes it possible to make
virtual journals through the body. This has opened for new procedures like CT colon, CT
urography and CT intestine.
 You have got a range of CT angiography procedures since the EU guidance RP154 was
established, and that calls for an update of the “225 approach” list. In this case you have
the same challenges and pitfalls as for the categorization of conventional angiographies,
since the CT arteriographies and venographies cover all regions of the body.
 You have certain CT examinations of the limbs as well, as well as CT pelvimetry; and
how to account for simple scout view used in measurements of the length of the limbs.
 CT guided interventional procedures are being used more and more; for biopsies in
cancer investigations, for radiofrequency ablation of tumors, etc This must be reflected in
the methodology.
 In addition CT and CBCT are used for dose planning, simulation and verification in
radiotherapy. It needs to be clarified what kinds of these procedures should be
considered as diagnostic procedures, as contributing to the collective effective dose from
radiodiagnostics.
Interventional procedures:
 Fluoroscopy and CT are currently being used for guiding a whole range of new
interventional procedures since the last ten years. Example of such procedures are
various kinds of percutaneous angioplastic, treatment of thrombus, embolism, fistula or
defects, installation of stents, bypass or catheters, injections in organs or tissues,
removal of foreign objects, biopsies and punctures.
 This issue needs strongly input from interventional radiologists and medical professions.
It should however be discussed whether these procedures should be accounted for in

Annexes
169
the collective effective dose estimate, since it is used in the treatment of patients not
only for diagnosis.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
170
9.10 Annex 10 - ADDITIONAL GUIDANCE FOR ESTIMATING
POPULATION DOSE
The existing European Guidelines on population dose estimations (RP 154) has been used and
tested as a basis of the present estimation of the collective effective dose to the European
population. For x-ray procedures, the comprehensive estimation based on all x-ray procedures
(72, 225 or more categories of procedures) has been carried out in six countries, while in all the
other countries, the TOP 20 has been the only available choice. This estimation has brought
about a number of practical experiences and observations on the feasibility of the TOP 20
approach which should be taken into account when revising the guidelines (RP 154). For NM
procedures, the RP 154 does not provide specific guidance but the present estimation of
population dose for NM procedures has provided practical experience and a good
methodological basis to develop and supplement RP 154 with specific guidelines for NM
procedures as well.
The purpose of the present work was not to revise RP 154 but the major observations and
conclusions for such future work, based on the present results and experiences are
summarized in the following. Besides the observations of this Annex, the information presented
in this report for population dose database (Section 5), effect of tissue weighting factors (Annex
12) and age and sex distributions (Section 7) provide summaries which should be important
supplements to the update of RP 154.
9.10.1 Guidelines for x-ray procedures
9.10.1.1 Categorization of examinations
There is no harmonized or common system for the classification of radiological examinations in
European countries. RP 154 presents the first commendable attempt to establish a common
approach to categorize examinations, so that the frequencies could be compared between
countries and for the purpose of population dose estimation. RP 154 provides three optional
methods of categorizing examinations: (1) 225 specific examination types as the most
comprehensive approach, (2) 72 broader categories of examinations, and (3) a list of 20
examinations (TOP 20) recognized to be most important for the total population dose.
For TOP 20, RP 154 provides a list of the indications for each of the TOP 20 groups; it appears
then that these procedures may represent many different codes in the national classification or
code system. To perform a population dose analysis on the basis of TOP 20 system (or using
72 or 225 categories), the equivalence of the national codes of examinations to these systems
need to be determined at a national level, i.e. to find out which of the national codes should be
included in each TOP 20 group (or each of the 72 or 225 categories). To make this sorting in a
consistent way, so that the national frequencies could be compared unbiased and without great
uncertainties, specific guidance were developed in the context of developing the DDM2

questionnaires and within the related discussions and data analysis. This guidance was partly
comprised by a list of frequently asked questions (FAQ) developed at the project website.
Further, some analysis of completely new procedures which are not included in the present 225
specific examinations, have been produced.
The detailed guidance on the recommended sorting of the national codes and interpretations to
be made, including some advice or discussion on the completely new types of examinations,
are presented in Annex 9.
9.10.1.2 Estimation of frequencies
The Top 20 method should only be used for estimating population dose. It is not appropriate if
an approximation of the overall frequency is needed. In fact, as can be seen from Table 5.4,
Top 20 examinations as defined in RP 154 contribute on average only about half to the overall
frequency. Considering the broader examination groups, only the overall frequency of CT
examinations is adequately covered (89 % on average). The Top 20 categories of plain

Annexes
171
radiography, fluoroscopy, and interventional radiology include, however, less than half of the
overall frequencies in many countries (31 -49 % on average). For interventional radiology, in
particular, the coverage of the respective Top 20 group (only one procedure, PTCA) is on
average only 31 %. In case of plain radiography, the low coverage is mainly due to the fact that
dental examinations and examinations of the extremities are not included in Top 20, both
examination categories being associated with very low effective doses and therefore
contributing only minor to the total collective doses from all x-ray examinations.
Particularly, the frequencies of dental examinations can be a high portion of the total frequency
(from about 14 to 45 % for six countries in this report). It is advisable, therefore, that the
frequency of dental examinations is given separately when reporting overall frequencies for
plain radiography.
9.10.1.3 Estimation of population doses: Conclusions for TOP 20 method
As can be seen from Table 5.17 and Fig. 5.12, TOP 20 method provides a reasonable estimate
of the overall population dose: TOP 20 examinations as defined in RP 154 on the average
contribute to about 77 % of the overall population dose. The coverage of TOP 20 groups is the
worst in interventional radiology, only about 34 %, due to only one procedure (PTCA) included
in this TOP 20 group.
In Table 10.1, for four European countries, the types of x-ray examinations are shown which
have the highest contribution to the total population dose. It can be seen that within the 20 most
important ones, there are 4-6 types of examinations beyond the present Top 20 list of RP 154.
In particular, this includes some IR procedures and CT procedures (e.g. CT chest/abdomen).
On the other hand, some of the present Top 20 groups are becoming of decreasing or low
importance for the population dose in these countries, in particular Top 20/2 (cervical spine),
Top 20/3 (thoracic spine), Top 20/10 (Ba follow) and Top 20/ 11 (IVU).

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
172
Table 10.1. The types of examinations having the highest contribution to the population dose
in four European countries, in descending order of importance. The types beyond Top 20 groups
correspond to the specific examinations (225 codes of RP 154; FI, CH and UK) or examination
categories (72 categories of RP 154; FR). (RA: plain radiography, FL: fluoroscopy, CT: computed
tomography, IR: interventional radiology).
Finland Switzerland UK France
1 Top 20/ 19.
Top 20/ 17. Top 20/ 19.
CT Abdomen and
pelvis
2 Top 20/ 17. Top 20/ 15. Top 20/ 15. Top 20/ 15.
3 Top 20/ 13. Top 20/ 4. Top 20/ 17. Top 20/ 14.
4 Top 20/ 15. CT Abdomen/pelvis CT Abdomen/pelvis Top 20/ 7.
5 Top 20/ 20. Top 20/ 7. Top 20/ 13. Top 20/ 6.
6 Top 20/ 4. Top 20/ 12 Top 20/ 5. Top 20/ 4.
7 Top 20/ 12 CT Full spine CT Chest/abdomen Top 20/ 13.
8 Top 20/ 5. Top 20/ 20. Top 20/ 12 Top 20/ 12
9 Top 20/ 1. CT Chest/abdomen Top 20/ 18. Top 20/ 17.
10 IR Pelvic vessel
dilatation Top 20/ 16.
Top 20/ 20. Top 20/ 20.
11 Top 20/ 7. Top 20/ 13. Top 20/ 6. CT Limbs
12 Top 20/ 16. Top 20/ 18. Top 20/ 4. Top 20/ 19.
13 Top 20/ 6.
Top 20/ 14.
Top 20/ 9. Top 20/ 8. & Top
20/ 10.
14 Top 20/ 10. Top 20/ 6. Top 20/ 7.
FL Thoracic
angiography
15 IR Abdominal region
biopsy
Top 20/ 8.
Top 20/ 14. CT Full spine
16 IR Pelvic vessel
embolisation Top 20/ 1. CT Full spine
Top 20/ 9.
17 CT Chest/abdomen
Top 20/ 19.
IR Renal artery
dilatation/stenting
Top 20/ 5.
18 FL Upper & lower
limb arteriography
Top 20/ 9.
Top 20/ 16. Top 20/ 1.
19 Top 20/ 9. Top 20/ 5. IR Abdominal
embolisation RA Whole spine
20 Top 20/ 14. Upper & lower limb
arteriography
FL Oesophagus (Ba
swallow) RA shoulder girdle

Annexes
173
In Table 10.2, the contribution of the 20 most important examinations (as shown in Table 10.1)
to the overall collective effective dose, is compared with the contribution of the present Top 20
list of RP 154. It can be seen, that the new “national Top 20” instead of that of RP 154 for these
countries would improve the accuracy of the population dose estimation on the average by
about 10 % (the data from FR should be excluded from the comparison because it relates to
broader groups than that of the three other countries). Table 10.1 also identifies, how many
types of examinations (in terms of the 225 codes of RP 154) are needed to cover certain
percentage of the overall collective effective dose. It can be seen that with a “national TOP 20”
list the coverage of about 90 % is achievable, while the coverage of 95 % would require about
30 types of examination.
Finland Switzerland UK France
21 Top 20/ 18. Bile duct drainage Top 20/ 11 Top 20/ 2.
22
Thoracic region
biopsy
CT Thoracic spine
FL Endoscopic
retrograde
cholangio-
pancreatography
(ERCP)
Top 20/ 11
23 Cerebral
angiography Top 20/ 3. Top 20/ 1.
FL Gynaecological
24
Lower limb
dilatation
Micturitional cysto-
urethrography
(MCU)
IR Thoracic
dilatation/stenting Top 20/ 3.
25
Oesophagus (Ba
swallow)
Endoscopic
retrograde
cholangio-
pancreatography
(ERCP)
IR Renal drainage FL Bladder and
urethra
26 Top 20/ 3.
Abdominal
aortography
IR Pelvic vessel
dilatation
RA Skeletal
survey
27 Abdominal
aortography
Defecography
Top 20/ 3.
RA Intra-oral < 3
films
28
Endoscopic
retrograde
cholangio-
pancreatography
(ERCP)
Pelvic
arteriography
Top 20/ 8.
Top 20/ 18.
29 Defecography Abdominal
embolisation
IR Abdominal
dilatation/stenting
RA Bones
30 Top 20/ 2. Lumbar
myelography
FL Upper & lower
limb arteriography
FL Defecography
37. Top 20/ 11 31. Top 20/ 2. 32. Top 20/ 10. 52.Top 20/ 16
56. Top 20/ 8. 32. Top 20/ 11 53. Top 20/ 2.
51. Top 20/ 10.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
174
Table 10.2. Coverage of overall collective effective dose: comparisons of Top 20 nationals with
that of RP 154, and the number of examination types to achieve a given coverage in %.
Based on the above, for a good estimation of the overall population dose when comprehensive
data for all examinations is not available, it is recommended to supplement the TOP 20 groups
of RP 154 by 4-6 extra examination categories, known or suspected to yield significant
contribution to the overall population dose. Table 10.1 provides some insight on possible extra
categories; in particular, some IR procedures and CT procedures (outside the present TOP 20
list) should be considered. This would enable to provide an estimate of about 90 % of the
overall population dose (on the average). However, Table 10.1 reviews the situation in only four
countries; in other countries some other, e.g. plain radiography or fluoroscopy procedures,
might be of more importance.
In general, it can be concluded that the TOP 20 method with the present list of 20 examinations
(RP 154) can still provide a reasonable estimate of the overall population dose, i.e. from about
60 % to 90 % of the overall dose. This can be significantly improved by supplementing the
analysis with 4-6 extra examinations. The present TOP 20 list can be retained and should be
changed not earlier than certain examinations become insignificant in the majority of EU
countries. This will facilitate comparisons of data between countries and enable easy follow-up
and analysis of the trends in population dose.
9.10.2 Nuclear Medicine procedures
For nuclear medicine examinations, no previous guidance on “Top 20 or equivalent” has been
available. The preparation of the EXCEL files for the data collection in this project was based on
the knowledge of a number of most common examinations in a few partner countries, and this
list of 28 different types of examinations turned out to be rather exhaustive; for most of the
countries, data of none or only a few extra examinations (outside the list) were provided through
the replies. Furthermore, most of these extra examinations having a significant contribution to
the overall population dose could be assigned to one of the 7 broader groups shown in Table 5.
(Section 5.2.2.2).
For nuclear medicine examinations, an approach analogous to Top 20 of x-ray procedures is
proposed here, based on the analysis of the European data in Section 5.2.2.2. The seven
groups identified in Table 5. (Section 5.2.2.2) contribute on the average more than 90 % to the
overall collective effective dose from all NM procedures; hence this group of examinations gives
on the average a good estimate of the overall population dose. This is defined here as “Top 7”
method and recommended as the basis of European guidance for population dose estimation of
nuclear medicine procedures.
x= 80% x=90% x=95% x=99%
Finland (FI) 77,0 89,8 12,8 13 21 30 55
France (FR) 96,2 97,2 1,0 10 14 17 26
Switzerland (CH) 86,3 90,4 4,1 12 20 34 65
UK (UK) 78,5 91,3 12,8 12 19 28 50
Mean 84,5 92,2 7,7 11,8 18,5 27,3 49,0
Mean without FR 80,6 90,5 9,9 12,3 20,0 30,7 56,7
How many examination types is needed
for the coverage of x % from overall E?
TOP 20
RP 154,
% of
overall E
TOP 20
national,
% of
overall E
Difference,
% of
overall E
Country

Annexes
175
9.11 Annex 11 - POPULATION DOSE DATABASE
The aim of the population dose database is the support of the evaluation of the collected data
and to enable a continuous follow-up and update of population doses in Europe. Furthermore, it
should be possible to compare and analyse trends during follow-up projects.
This section contains only an overview of the Dose Datamed Database (DDMedDB). Detailed
technical information, developed software programmes and the data itself are available on the
Dose Datamed II Resource CD.
9.11.1 Data acquisition and analysis workflow
The data collection workflow is shown in Figure 11.1. The data in the different participating
countries was collected using an Internet-based online Questionnaire System (1). This enabled
an easy to control access to the questions without the need to install software. As the collection
of the complex dose data would have been difficult, the frequency and dose data itself was
collected with two dedicated Excel templates (2). Software has been developed to transfer the
collected data into the DDMedDB (3). From the database, different views provided the basis for
the dynamic web pages on ddmed.eu/database (4). The database exports have been the base
for the data verification and evaluation (5). The team has prepared the necessary tables and
charts using Excel and included them, together with the associated descriptions into the final
DDM2 report (6).
Figure 11.1. Workflow of the collected data within DDM2 project.
9.11.2 Design and technical implementation of the Database
During the implementation, importance was attached to the fact, that only standard technologies
have been used. This reduces the technical dependency of the provided solution.
To support the data evaluation, different database views have been implemented. A database
view 175rganizes the data in the database to show specific aspects of the collected data without
duplicating the data. The following views are available:
 Type and number of healthcare providers per country in Europe.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
176
 Overview of healthcare professionals in Europe; Status and date the countries provided
the data.
 Equipment available in the different countries per modality.
 X-ray TOP20 overview of the frequencies.
 Categorization of the x-ray frequency per million into the four classes: Plain radiography,
Fluoroscopy, CT and Interventional. This view is available as an interactive chart at the
web site.
 Overview of the x-ray frequency uncertainties per country
 X-ray TOP 20 overview of the typical effective dose.
 Categorization of the typical effective doses into the four classes: Plain radiography,
Fluoroscopy, CT and Interventional. This view is available as interactive chart at the web
site.
 X-ray TOP 20 overview of the collective effective dose per million.
 Categorization of the collective x-ray effective dose per million into the four classes:
Plain radiography, Fluoroscopy, CT and Interventional. This view is available as an
interactive chart at the web site.
 Overview of the x-ray dose uncertainties per country
 Overview of the frequencies of the dental examinations.
 Overview of the typical effective dose value for all countries and dental examination
types.
 Lists the TOP 28 NM examination frequencies for all countries.
 Lists the TOP 28 NM mean activities for all countries
 Has PET-CT increasingly used in your country [Y,N,UNK] for all countries
Those views have been used to create the dynamic diagrams on ddmed.eu/database, data
checking, data analysis and during report writing. The following dynamic diagrams are available:
 TOP20 Frequency by Examination Category
 TOP20 Typical Effective Dose per Examination Category
 TOP20 Collective Effective Dose per Examination Category
 X-RAY Diagnostic Reference Level Map
 NM Diagnostic Reference Level Map.
9.11.3 Database content and future updates
The database contains all the data collected during the data collection of the DDM2 project.
This includes comments received from the national contact points until end of 2012. The
database is designed to support several data sets from future studies. This will allow a future
project to compare the collected data and calculate trends.

Annexes
177
Adding additional data, the environment has to be prepared and configured. The following
actions have to be performed at technical level:
 Configuration of the DDM2 database (needs to be running)
 Configuration of the input Excel files. The input files have to be based on the templates
developed during the project and are available on the resource CD.
 Definition of a new study.
 Execution of the Import and Export Software components to import the new data and
optionally export the data.
All configuration changes need to be performed in the source code of the different software
components. If the Excel templates are changed, those changes have to be taken into account
as well within the Database Importer Software component. If additional view are needed, for
example to compare different studies, those have to be added to the database and optionally to
the Database Export Software component.
The maintenance of the database was guaranteed by the DDM2 consortium during the project
duration.
9.11.4 DDM2 database as a tool to monitor patient doses in Europe
The database developed during this project is a good basis to establish a set of data to monitor
and follow up the use of medical exposures in Europe. Even though there have not been
enough resources to establish a system with sophisticated user interface, the system can
handle data from several years/studies.
A future project might (1) extend the database with a web interface to upload data (2) establish
a scientific committee that reviews the submitted data (3) develops the necessary comparative
methods and database views and (4) gives interactive access of the collected data to the
radiation protection community.
Future updates of the data are a long-term activity. Therefore the database should be put into
the custodial care of an organisation dealing with radiation protection issues.

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
178
9.12 Annex 12 - EFFECT OF TISSUE RISK WEIGHTING FACTORS
ON THE ESTIMATION OF EFFECTIVE DOSE FOR X-RAY
PROCEDURES
9.12.1 Evolution in tissue weighting factors
Effective dose (E) was developed by the International Commission on Radiological Protection
(ICRP) to allow the summation of doses, whether whole or partial-body, from internal or external
sources, as part of its system of protection (ICRP, 2007). The quantity provides a single
measure of the dose to a reference person (of average age and gender) that is roughly
proportional to the total ’radiation detriment’ from stochastic effects associated with exposure to
ionising radiation. E is calculated as a weighted sum of the mean absorbed doses (or strictly the
mean equivalent doses) to those organs and tissues in the body that are prone to radiation
cancer or heritable effects:
where HT is the equivalent dose in organ or tissue T, DT, R is the mean absorbed dose in organ
or tissue T due to radiation of type R, wR is the radiation weighting factor for radiation R (equal
to unity for diagnostic x-rays), wT is the tissue weighting factor for tissue T and ∑wT = 1.
The tissue weighting factors (wT) are chosen for protection purposes by ICRP (2007) to
represent the contributions of individual organs or tissues to overall ‘radiation detriment’ from
stochastic effects. This process takes into account the life lost from fatal cancers and heritable
effects, and the reduced quality of life associated with non-fatal cancers and heritable effects.

The concept of a detriment-weighted dose quantity was first developed by ICRP (1977) in
Publication 26, with the name ‘effective dose equivalent’ and tissue weighting factors reflecting
risk for fatal cancers and hereditary effects. The quantity known as effective dose was
subsequently introduced by ICRP (1991) in its 1990 recommendations on the basis of updated
research on radiation effects and tissue weighting factors that related to an aggregated
representation of detriment, including non-fatal cancers as well as fatal cancers and severe
hereditary effects. Effective dose was further updated with new tissue weighting factors in the
2007 recommendations of ICRP (2007).
Error! Reference source not found.12.1 presents a summary of the evolution (1977 to 2007)
in the ICRP tissue weighting factors. The number of organs with specific tissue weighting
factors has increased and values for particular organs have changed following updated
analyses of risk and radiation detriment. In particular, there has been a significant reduction in
relation to the tissue weighting factor for dose to the gonads and hereditary risks. There have
also been changes and improved clarity in the treatment of so-called ‘remainder’ organs or
tissues not otherwise having specific tissue weighting factors. In Publication 26 (ICRP, 1977),
the remainder tissue weighting factor of 0.3 was split between the 5 (unspecified) other organs
receiving the highest doses. In Publication 60 (ICRP, 1991), the tissue weighting factor of 0.05
was split between 10 particular organs, although, under the so-called ‘remainder rule’, a tissue
weighting factor of 0.025 was applied to any remainder organ receiving a higher dose than any
organ with a specific tissue weighting factor, with 0.025 then being applied to the mean dose for
the rest of the remainder. Most recently in Publication 103 (ICRP, 2007), the remainder tissue
weighting factor of 0.12 is applied to the arithmetic mean of the doses to 13 particular organs.
The more detailed and prescriptive approach in this latter development has improved
consistency in the calculation of effective dose and ensured that the quantity is now truly
additive.

Annexes
179
Table 12.1. Evolution in tissue weighting factors recommended by ICRP for the calculation of
effective dose equivalent and effective dose.
Organ or tissue Publication 26a
(ICRP, 1977)
Publication 60b
(ICRP, 1991)
Publication 103b
(ICRP, 2007)
Gonads 0,25 0,20 0,08
Bone marrow (red) 0,12 0,12 0,12
Lung 0,12 0,12 0,12
Breast 0,15 0,05 0,12
Thyroid 0,03 0,05 0,04
Bone surfaces 0,03 0,01 0,01
Remainder 0,30c 0,05d 0,12e
Colon - 0,12 0,12
Stomach - 0,12 0,12
Bladder - 0,05 0,04
Liver - 0,05 0,04
Oesophagus - 0,05 0,04
Skin - 0,01 0,01
Salivary glands - - 0,01
Brain - - 0,01
a Effective dose equivalent.
b Effective dose.
c 0.06 to each of the 5 organs or tissues of the ‘remainder’ receiving the highest doses.
d Remainder composed of 10 particular organs and tissues: adrenals, brain, upper large intestine, small
intestine, kidney, muscle, pancreas, spleen, thymus and uterus. Weighting split equally between any
single remainder organ receiving a higher dose than any of those with specific tissue weighting factors
and the mean dose to the rest of the remainder (the ‘remainder rule’).
e 0.12 applies to the arithmetic mean of the doses to 13 particular organs and tissues for each sex:
adrenals, extrathoracic region, gall bladder, heart, kidneys, lymphatic nodes, muscle, oral mucosa,
pancreas, prostate (male), small intestine, spleen, thymus and uterus/cervix (female).
For the highly non-uniform dose distributions arising from the partial-body irradiations common
in diagnostic radiology, such changes in the ICRP tissue weighting factors can have a
significant influence on the estimated doses. Previous analysis has shown that values of
effective dose (E60) calculated following the methodology in ICRP 60 (1991) could differ from
corresponding values of effective dose equivalent (ICRP, 1977) by up to a factor of two (NRPB,
1993). Differences were largest for examinations of the head (where ‘remainder organs’ make
relatively large contributions to the total dose), but were within 20% for most examinations of the
trunk. Similarly significant differences are also apparent between values of effective dose
according to Publication 60 (ICRP, 1991), E60, and Publication 103 (ICRP, 2007), E103, as
summarised in Table 12.2 in relation to some typical x-ray examinations on the basis of
modelling utilising the adult MIRD anthropomorphic mathematical phantom and typical UK
practice for adults (Wall et al, 2011).

Medical Radiation Exposure of the European Population
180
Table 12.2. Ratios for corresponding estimates of effective dose, according to ICRP 103 and
ICRP 60 definitions, for common x-ray procedures on adults (Wall et al, 2011).
X-ray procedure Ratio E103 / E60
Radiography Head (skull) 1,36
Cervical spine 1,00
Shoulder 0,92
Chest 1,00
Thoracic spine 1,03
Lumbar spine 0,91
Abdomen 0,91
Pelvis 0,62
Single hip 0,58
Both hips 0,54
Femur 0,55
Knee 0,50
Foot 1,00
Intravenous urography (IVU) 0,91
Fluoroscopy Barium swallow 1,07
Barium follow 0,87
Barium enema 0,73
Coronary angiography 1,00
Femoral angiography 0,82
Computed
tomography (CT)
CT head 0,84
CT chest 1,14
CT abdomen 1,09
CT abdomen and pelvis 0,98
CT chest, abdomen and pelvis 1,09
Once again, variations by up to a factor of 2 are apparent between corresponding estimates of
effective dose following the 2007 (E103) and 1991 (E60) definitions. The ratio E103/ E60
ranges from about 0.5 for radiographic examinations of the pelvis, hips and femur (owing to the
relatively high gonad doses and the reduced tissue weighting factor for heritable effects in E103
compared to E60) to around 1.4 for radiographic examination of the head (owing to the inclusion
of the highly-irradiated salivary glands, oral mucosa and extrathoracic tissues in E103). For
most other types of x-ray examination, differences are within ±20% and most commonly within
±10%. The low ratio for CT head (compared to the high ratio for radiography of the head), is due
to the high brain dose from CT head and application of the ‘remainder rule’ for E60 (where a
tissue weighting factor of 0.025 is thus applied to the brain) but not for E103 (where the tissue
weighting factor for brain is specifically 0.01). The ratio of 1.14 for CT of the chest is due to the
relatively high breast dose and higher tissue weighting factor for the breast in E103 (0.12)
compared with E60 (0.05).
In summary, the most recent revision in tissue weighting factors from ICRP 60 (E60) to ICRP
103 (E103) will have a significant impact (by more than a few tens of percent) for only a few
types of x-ray examination. Furthermore, when applied to an assessment of the population dose
from all x-ray examinations in the UK for 2008, the estimate based on E103 was only slightly
higher (by 2%) than when based on E60 (Hart et al, 2010). However, estimates of effective
dose should always be analysed with knowledge of the tissue weighting factors applied in order
to interpret correctly any changes arising from differences in radiology practice.
9.12.2 Evolution in anthropomorphic reference patients
Effective dose cannot, of course, be measured directly and its estimation requires knowledge of
the mean doses to a range of organs that in turn can only be assessed using dose coefficients
determined for reference patients by measurement in physical phantoms or calculation using
Monte Carlo techniques and virtual phantoms (ICRU, 2005; UNSCEAR, 2010). These organ

Annexes
181
doses can be expressed relative to simpler quantities that can be more easily measured in
practice such as entrance surface dose per radiograph, dose-area product per complete
radiographic or fluoroscopic examination and, for CT, volume-weighted CT dose index (IAEA,
2007). Inevitably, therefore, estimates of effective dose depend on the particular dose model
and reference patient assumed.
In the past, organ and effective dose modelling for x-ray examinations has commonly been
based on the hermaphrodite mathematical phantoms first developed by Oak Ridge National
Laboratory in the USA, originally in relation to calculations for internal dosimetry and known as
the MIRD (medical internal radiation dosimetry) phantoms (ICRU, 2005). These provide stylised
representations of human anatomy based on simple geometric shapes. In recent times, more
anatomically realistic tomographic or voxel (‘volume pixel’) phantoms have been developed
based on detailed whole body images (CT or MRI) of real patients. In particular, ICRP has
recommended the use of the adult reference computational phantoms, adult male (AM) and
adult female (AF), for the estimation of mean organ doses for the calculation of effective dose
(ICRP, 2009).
Whereas both the MIRD and the ICRP (AM and AF) phantoms provide representations of
reference patients based on typical (reference) organ masses for a general population, there
are significant differences in appearance between these phantoms in terms of the shape and
location of individual organs, which in turn can significantly affect estimated values of organ and
effective dose under similar conditions of exposure. There are also differences in the models
applied in relation, for example, to bone dosimetry (affecting estimated mean doses to red
marrow and endostial tissues). Table presents, for example, a summary of the differences in
estimates of normalised E103 between an updated MIRD phantom (HPA18+) and the ICRP AM
and AF voxel phantoms for some standard CT examinations (Jansen and Shrimpton, 2011).
Doses are presented relative to data for the MIRD phantom and represent mean results over a
range of CT scanner models. Effective doses assessed on the basis of mean organ doses
averaged over the AM and AF voxel reference phantoms are in general larger than those based
on the MIRD phantom, by up to 40% in the case of scans of the abdomen.
Table 12.3. Variation in normalised effective dose for standard CT examinations simulated for
different adult reference patients (Jansen and Shrimpton, 2011).
CT examination Relative normalised effective dose (E103)
HPA 18+a AMb AFb AM+AFb
Head 1,0 0,9 1,2 1,1
Chest 1,0 1,2 1,4 1,3
Abdomen 1,0 1,4 1,3 1,4
Pelvis 1,0 0,7 1,2 1,0
Whole body 1,0 1,0 1,1 1,1
a Updated adult MIRD mathematical phantom.
b ICRP adult reference computational phantoms (ICRP, 2009).
In summary, estimates of effective dose are dependent on the models assumed for the
underlying assessments of mean organ doses. Values of effective dose (2007 definition) for x-
ray examinations based on the new ICRP adult reference computational phantoms (AM and AF)
can vary from those based on the old adult MIRD phantom by up to a few tens of percent.
Estimates of effective dose should always be analysed with knowledge of the underlying
reference patient and dose models assumed in order to interpret correctly any changes arising
from differences in radiology practice.
