queueId: ingest-1781569954388-hvh
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260520 우크라이나(Licarno) 23G, P1 - 이창민 팀장님/260527 1차 제출본/3.1 [Portable X-ray System] Technical Document/6. Product Verification and Validation/5. Clinical Evaluation Report/Literature/# 93.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/4c38ad61d116/# 93__4c38ad61d116_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: d55d23fcdc74
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 423

SOURCE_TEXT
19
AJR 158:19-27, January 1992 036i-803X/92/i58i-0019 © American Roentgen Ray Society
Review Article
. , .,. ,
Computed Radiography in Musculoskeletal Imaging: State
of the Art
Mark D. Murphey,1 Jarnes L. Quale,1 Norman L. Martin,1
Samuel J. Dwyer 1111,3
Computed radiography is a 2K x 2K x 10 bit digital radiographic
system that replaces the film-screen combination with a photo-
stimulable phosphor plate. The advantages of this relatively new
technology include linear detector response, improved detector
efficiency, and digital processing capabilities. Musculoskeletal
applications benefit significantly from these attributes, which
result clinically in the ability to reduce both radiation dose and
number of exposures. Studies of observers’ performance have
shown no statistically significant difference in diagnostic accu-
racy between film-screen and computed radiographic musculo-
skeletal images. Computed radiography is particularly useful in
the evaluation of the musculoskeletal system in traumatized
patients with portable radiographs, spine radiographs, scoliosis
studies, and depiction of soft-tissue abnormalities. Limitations
include change in image format and size, high cost, decreased
spatial resolution, restricted throughput, increased perception of
noise, and new artifacts that must be recognized. Spatial reso-
lution limitations of computed radiography in identification of fine
detail information can be improved by using magnification tech-
niques. Radiation dose reduction with an exposure decrease of
25-50% can be achieved without loss of diagnostic accuracy,
although this depends on the examination and the abnormality.
An interactive workstation is important in the use of a computed
radiographic system with capabilities to adjust display parame-
ters to best depict images and disease.
We conclude that computed radiography is an alternative to
film-screen radiography without significant differences in diag-
nostic quality in the evaluation of musculoskeletal images.
John M. Bramble,2 Larry T. Cook,1 and
Computed radiography (CR) is a relatively new digital radio-
graphic system that uses a photostimulable phosphor plate
as the X-ray detector [1 -4]. It has evolved from conventional
analog radiography and has three primary advantages: (1)
improved detector efficiency; (2) linear detector response; and
(3) the capabilities of digital processing for image enhance-
ment, storage, retrieval, display, and transmission. Radiog-
raphy of the musculoskeletal system benefits significantly
from these advantages. This article reviews the applications
of CR in musculoskeletal imaging.
Technical Considerations
CR systems replace the conventional film-screen combi-
nation with a storage phosphor (photostimulable phosphor).
The phosphor imaging plate is placed in a film-screen cas-
sette, and conventional radiographic imaging equipment and
techniques are used. The flexible imaging plate contains a
phosphor layer of fine-grain (5-1 0 pm) barium fluorohalide
crystals doped with divalent europium (Eu2 ). This is dis-
persed in high concentrations in a binder and coated on a
transparent film protective layer. The imaging plates are sim-
ilar to screens, and care must be taken in handling. Weekly
cleaning of the plates is suggested to avoid dust accumula-
tion, a common cause of artifacts. When the imaging plate is
Received July 2, 1991 ; accepted after revision August 28, 1991.
‘ Department of Diagnostic Radiology, University of Kansas Medical Center, 39th and Rainbow Blvd. , Kansas City. KS 661 03. Address reprint requests to M.
D. Murphey.
2 Department of Radiology, Cushing Hospital, Leavenworth, KS 66048.
3 Present address: Department of Radiological Sciences, Division of Medical Imaging. UCLA School of Medicine. Los Angeles. CA 90024.
Downloaded from www.ajronline.org by 84.202.255.69 on 10/02/15 from IP address 84.202.255.69. Copyright ARRS. For personal use only; all rights reserved

Fig. 1.-Wide dynamic range of computed radiography is depicted on
these lateral radiographs of knee phantom.
A and B, Exposure techniques of 70 kVp with 16 mAs (A) and 1.6 mAs
(B) show similar density. Similar 10-fold difference in mAs with conven-
tional radiographs (not shown) were over- and underexposed and were
nondlagnostic. The 10% exposure phosphor plate image (B) reveals in-
creased noise as graininess.
Fig. 2.-Pictorial representation of a typical computed radiography
system and its components. Reception terminal (A) is designed to enter
patient’s information into computed radiography system. Examination room
terminal (B) is used to select type of examination (menu selection) and
imaging parameters to be used. Exposed phosphor plate is entered into
laser reader (C). Laser beam scans across phosphor plate. Photolumi-
nescence light is digitized. Digital data are transmitted to image processor
(E) and archived on optical disk (F). Enhanced digital image data are
recorded by laser printer (D). Laser printer and 90-sec automatic film
processor (D) generate film hard copy of examination. Image processor
(E) is connected to gray-scale display workstation (F). Image processor is
a hard-wired computer that executes processing commands of interactive
workstation (F). Arrows show flow of digital data.
20 MURPHEY ET AL. AJR:i58, January i992
exposed, electrons are excited to higher energy levels (con-
duction band) by the primary incident radiation (X-rays). Solid-
state conduction occurs, these electrons are trapped at halide
vacancies (color centers) to form F centers, and holes are
captured at Eu2 sites to create Eu3 [1 ]. The exposed
imaging plate is scanned by a helium-neon (633 nm) laser.
When the phosphor crystals are irradiated by the secondary
excitation (laser), the color centers absorb energy. The
trapped electrons drop to lower energy levels, and light is
emitted in a process referred to as photostimulable lumines-
cence. This luminescence is captured by a photomultiplier
tube and converted to an analog electrical signal, which is
then digitized.
Detector efficiency and linear response are terms that
require understanding. Detector efficiency is defined as the
percentage of photons emanating from the subject that result
in the formation of the image at the detector. Faster film-
screen combinations have greater efficiency and therefore
allow decreased radiation dose to the patient. Phosphor plate
detectors are two to four times as efficient as the fastest
film-rare earth screen combinations typically used in muscu-
loskeletal examinations. Further improvement in efficiency is
currently being investigated with different element mixtures
for the detectors such as selenium and cesium iodide (Blume
H, presented at International Meeting Digital Radiology and
Network, April 1 991). This clinically results in the ability to
reduce radiation dose (Fig. 1).
Linear response of the detector refers to its ability to show
various degrees of exposure accurately as differences in
density [3]. High-contrast film-screen systems have a narrow
range of exposure in which the film density is proportional to
film-screen exposure. Low-contrast systems allow a wide
range of exposures. The response of the phosphor imaging
plate-the log ofthe stimulated luminescence intensity output
as a function of the log of the X-ray intensity exposure-is
linear over a range of 1 0,000 or more. This exceeds that of
film-screen combinations by a factor of 1 00. This offers dis-
tinct advantages in parts of the body that have a large range
of subject contrast (osseous and soft tissue) and body thick-
ness. Improved linear response allows further reduction of
radiation dose by decreasing repeated examinations owing
to initial incorrect exposures. In our department, film-screen
images are repeated in approximately 6% of cases as op-
posed to less than 1 % for CR, a significant decrease in
repeated examinations.
Currently available CR systems use a 2K x 2K x 1 0 bit
matrix. The experience at our institution is from approximately
20,000 examinations (approximately 25% musculoskeletal
images [5000 studies]) performed in a 2- to 3-year period. A
typical CR system with description of the components and
functions is illustrated in Figure 2. The laser plate scanning
parameters are established by algorithms so as to maximize
the signal-to-noise ratio (setting the sensitivity and latitude) of
the latent image. Histogram analysis for latitude and sensitivity
is performed over a selected portion of the image and is
dependent on the type of examination, anatomic location
being imaged, and proper positioning of the patient by the
technologist. The digital imaging data are processed for edge
enhancement and contrast mapping, selected by examination.
Observer Performance Investigations
Conversion from conventional radiography to digital imag-
ing, including CR phosphor plate systems, provides multiple
Downloaded from www.ajronline.org by 84.202.255.69 on 10/02/15 from IP address 84.202.255.69. Copyright ARRS. For personal use only; all rights reserved

AJR:i58, January i992 COMPUTED RADIOGRAPHY IN MUSCULOSKELETAL IMAGING 21
Note-CAT = cathode ray tube.
advantages. These include improvement in image processing,
storage, retrieval, and display, as well as the ability to reduce
radiation dose with phosphor plate technology [5]. Diagnostic
quality must be maintained in comparison with conventional
radiography. One of the current limitations of digital imaging
is the reduced spatial resolution available compared with
conventional radiography. The maximum spatial resolution of
the 2K x 2K x 1 0 bit phosphor plate system (2.5-5.0 cycles/
mm corresponding to pixel size of 0.1 -0.2 mm) and imaging
plate size availability are shown in Table 1 . This spatial
resolution is in the range shown to be necessary in previous
investigations for the vast majority of diagnostic needs, in-
cluding those involving fine detail information (interstitial lung
disease, pneumothorax, and nondisplaced fractures) [6-13]
(Table 2). An exception to this in musculoskeletal imaging
may be identification of subperiosteal resorption in hyperpara-
thyroidism. Magnification techniques (Fig. 3) have been used
in CR, as demonstrated by Nakano et al. [14] and Gianna-
tempo et al. [1 5], and may alleviate spatial resolution con-
straints in detection of subtle musculoskeletal abnormalities.
A significant deficiency in the current literature is the limited
number of quantitative studies that compare observers’ per-
formance with CR and film-screen techniques in musculo-
skeletal imaging. Investigations by Prokop et al. [1 6] showed
no difference in observers’ performance in detection of ex-
perimentally produced cortical lesions when film-screen ra-
diography was compared with CR. These cortical lesions
were experimentally produced, which restricts the clinical
application of this study. The size of the defects (>3 mm)
chosen made this study dependent on contrast resolution
and thus one of the few investigations of this important
parameter. Wilson et al. [1 7] showed no statistically significant
difference between conventional radiography and CR in over-
all relative accuracy in detecting and localizing minor trauma
in the extremities. The observer performance study provided
mixed results, with a subgroup of fractures at a specific false-
positive fraction showing a significant difference with prefer-
ence for film-screen images. Concern was raised about the
adequacy of CR systems because of the fracture subset data.
Our recent investigation (Murphey MD et al., presented at the
annual meeting of the American Roentgen Ray Society, May
1 991) of approximately 1 50 musculoskeletal examinations
and a variety of diseases, including a subset of subtle abnor-
malities (high-frequency information), showed no significant
difference in diagnostic accuracy between conventional ra-
diography and CR. Both our study and that of Wilson et al.
[1 7] showed conventional radiography had slightly greater
area under the receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC)
curves, suggesting some improved performance with conven-
tional radiography. However, we agree with Yang et al. [18]
TABLE 1: Imaging Plate Sizes and Spatial Resolution
Storage Phosphor Laser Scanning Di I D Arr S e Maximum Spatial
Imaging Plate Size in Beam Pixel Size gi a a a Is’ ay iz Resolution in cycles
in. (cm) (Mm) pixe , (pixels)/mm
14 x 17 (36 x 43) 200 1760 x 2140 x 10 bits 2.5 (5)
14 x 14 (36 x 36) 200 1760 x 1760 x 10 bits 2.5 (5)
10 x 12 (25 x 30) 150 1576 x 1976 x 10 bits 3.4 (7)
8 x 1 0 (20 x 25) high 100 1770 x 2370 or 251 0 5.0 (10)
resolution x 2000 x 1 0 bits
TABLE 2: Studies Estimating Spatial Resolution Requirements for Digital Imaging
Estimated Required
Investigator Display Technology Abnormality Pixel Size in mm
(cycles/mm)
Foley et al. [7] (1 983) Film Chest nodules 1 .0 (0.5)
Seeley et al. [13] (1987) Film Lung disease 0.2 (2.5)
MacMahon et al. [10] Film Interstitial infiltrates 0.1 (5.0)
(1986)
Lams and Cocklin [9] CRT (1 K x 1 K x 8 Nodules and interstitial <0.8 (0.6)
(1 986) bits) disease
Goodman et al. [8] CRT (1 K x 1 K x 8 Mixed chest diseases 0.2 (2.5)
(1986) bits)
Murphey [i 1] (1989) Film Subperiosteal resorp- <0.08 (5.7)
tion
Murphey et al. [1 2] Film Nondisplaced fractures <0.1 6 (2.9)
(1990)
Cox et al. [6] (1990) CRT (2K x 2K x 12 Mixed chest disease <0.2 (2.5)
bits) and film
Downloaded from www.ajronline.org by 84.202.255.69 on 10/02/15 from IP address 84.202.255.69. Copyright ARRS. For personal use only; all rights reserved

22 MURPHEY ET AL. AJR:i58, January 1992
Fig. 3.-Phosphor plate magni-
cation (2:1 direct enlargement) an-
eroposterior radiograph of distal
lemur in 12-year-old girl with cord-
cal Ewing sarcoma. “Hair on end”
periosteal reaction (arrows) and
Codman triangles (arrowheads)
are well depicted on computed
radiograph.
that this may be an effect of the inherent subjective bias
toward conventional radiography reflecting interpreters’ fa-
miliarity. Yang et al. [1 8] showed a diagnostic accuracy (with
ROC analysis) in CR myelography equivalent to that with the
conventional technique in 40 cases. This study was a less
demanding test of CR, as it was compared with a conventional
method with reduced spatial resolution requirements and
greater emphasis on contrast resolution. Juergen et al. (Juer-
gen MGA et al., presented at the annual meeting of the
Radiological Society of North America, November 1990)
showed no difference in diagnostic accuracy in the evaluation
of arthritis and hyperparathyroidism involving the hand when
they compared CR and film-screen radiography. Numerous
more qualitative assessments by Pettersson et al. [1 9] (spine,
large bones and joints), Giannatempo et al. [1 5] (assessment
of arthritis and renal osteodystrophy in the hand), and Kan-
garb et al. [20] (including skull and extremities) have shown
CR to compare favorably with conventional radiography. Con-
tinued quantitative investigations are necessary to establish
a consensus on requirements of both spatial and contrast
resolution for CR to maintain diagnostic quality similar to that
of conventional radiography in musculoskeletal imaging.
Specific Musculoskeletal Applications
Portable film-screen radiography requires frequent, re-
peated exposure to obtain acceptable quality and tends to
provide less detail than examinations with more sophisticated
scatter-rejection techniques. Both of these problems are im-
proved on with CR: the wide linear response allows fewer
reexposures; the digital processing allows edge enhancement
to improve perception of detail. Portable musculoskeletal
examinations are one of the most frequent applications of CR
technology, where it is particularly useful in imaging patients
with major trauma. Computed portable radiography is used
for the entire spine in these patients, as well as for chest,
pelvis, and extremity imaging. The vast majority of portable
examinations done in the emergency department are now

performed with CR at our institution, and 1 8% of our total
workload uses this system. Our experience is similar to that
of Milos et al. [21], that is, that skeletal radiologists and
emergency physicians prefer CR images to conventional
radiographs.
Wide variation and range of body thickness and X-ray
attenuation in the thorax and abdomen can create exposure
difficulties for conventional radiography of the thoracic and
lumbar spine. The shoulders cause a similar effect for visual-
ization of the lower cervical spine in the lateral projection. The
wide linear response of CR is well suited to detect and
accommodate this extreme range of attenuation. Phosphor
plate imaging can provide a significant improvement in imag-
ing of the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine as compared
with conventional radiography.
In a study by Silver et al. (Silver Dl et al., presented at the
annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America,
November 1 989), 97% of CR lateral cervical spine images vs
83% of film-screen radiographs were considered adequate.
The bone and soft tissues were better visualized with CR in
their study. The more uniform film density particularly im-
proves evaluation of the hyoid, larynx, and trachea on cervical
spine films; posterior ribs on thoracic spine films; and
transverse processes in the lumbar region without the need
of a bright light. Swimmer views of the lower cervical spine
are a frequent cause of multiple exposures to achieve ade-
quate images of the vital cervicothoracic junction in trauma-
tized patients. These repeated examinations (approximately
50% at our institution) can be nearly eliminated owing to the
wide dynamic range of the phosphor plates (Fig. 4). We
performed a study (Murphey MD et al., ARRS meeting, May
1 991) comparing the number of vertebral levels adequately
visualized on lateral projections in patients in whom both CR
and conventional images of the cervical and thoracic spine
had been obtained at various exposure techniques. We found
that an increased number of vertebral levels were more
frequently identified with CR in both the cervical and thoracic
spine. Thoracic spine imaging is most improved by phosphor
plate technology, where an average of two additional spinal
levels could be visualized in comparison with film-screen
technology (Fig. 5). Kreipke et al. [22], on the other hand,
found no statistical difference in the lowest cervical vertebrae
seen on the lateral projection in their study of 1 09 patients
with trauma who had both CR and conventional radiographs.
The evaluation of scoliosis is an area where wide variation
in density is well evaluated by phosphor plate imaging. We
reviewed 30 posteroanterior scoliosis CR examinations and
found anatomic landmarks for Cobb angle measurements,
visualization of the apical vertebrae, and spinal detail ade-
quate (Fig. 6) with exposures ranging from 50% to 1 00% of
that with the film-screen technique (Murphey MD et al., ARRS
meeting, May 1991). Kalmer et al. (Kalmer JA et al., presented
at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North
America, November 1 985) have reported adequate scoliosis
examinations with a CR system at radiation exposures of less
than 1 % of those required by film-screen systems. This
lessening of radiation dose is particularly important in these
young patients. In the past, many scoliosis examinations have
been performed in the posteroanterior projection to reduce
radiation dose to the breast. However, with the reduced
exposure possible with the phosphor plate system, the an-
Downloaded from www.ajronline.org by 84.202.255.69 on 10/02/15 from IP address 84.202.255.69. Copyright ARRS. For personal use only; all rights reserved

Fig. 4.-Normal swimmer projection computed radiograph do- Fig. 5.-Osseous metastasis and pathologic fracture in patient with breast car-
picts cervicothoracic junction with uniform optical density range cinoma.
unlike film-screen radiographs. A and B, Lateral thoracic spine conventional radiograph (A ) and phosphor plate
image (B) with same exposure technique. Computed radiograph allows visualization
of a greater number of vertebral levels and better shows T4 pathologic fracture
(arrowheads).
AJR:i58, January i992 COMPUTED RADIOGRAPHY IN MUSCULOSKELETAL IMAGING 23
Fig. 6.-Computed radiograph
of scoliosis at 50% of exposure
technique used for film-screen ra-
diography. Horizontal black line is
an effect of printing two images on
one film; however, no digital data
are lost.
teroposterior projection will be more feasible. This will result
in further improvement in osseous detail. Imaging is done with
a routine scoliosis cassette containing two phosphor plates
that are then transferred and processed separately. Process-
ing parameters are set differently for the thoracic and lumbar
regions (anatomic location dependent), which allows equali-
zation of film density to compensate for various thicknesses
of body parts and the resulting X-ray attenuation. This is
analogous to the use of gradient screens in the evaluation of
scoliosis with conventional radiography. The two images can
be printed in a one-on-one format and then taped together,
as are conventional radiographs. For easier handling and
storage, the scoliosis examination can be printed on a single
film (25.7 x 36.4 cm) via the interactive workstation.
Evaluation of fractures, subluxations, and other abnormal-
ties about the pelvis, acetabulum, and sacroiliac joints are
well shown with CR in our experience. Dose reduction in
children with Legg-Perthes disease, congenital hip dysplasia,
and slipped capital femoral epiphysis is particularly important
owing to lessened gonadal exposure. Lateral film-screen ex-
aminations of the hip often require repeated exposures owing
to the wide range of X-ray attenuation. This is another ideal
area for imaging with CR to eliminate these difficulties.
The work of Wilson et al. [17] and our observer perform-
ance study (Murphey MD et al., ARRS meeting, May 1991)
showed no overall statistical difference between phosphor
plate images and conventional radiographs in abnormalities
of the extremities. However, questions have been raised [17]
concerning the ability of CR to visualize subtle nondisplaced
fractures where high-spatial-resolution requirements may be
near the limits of current CR technology. The high-resolution
phosphor plates increase maximal spatial resolution to 5
cycles/mm. This improved osseous detail is particularly useful
in extremity examinations, and we recommend using the high-
resolution imaging plates whenever possible. The high-reso-
lution imaging plate may be limited by the number available in
a busy radiology department and the restriction of an 8- by
1 0-in. (20- by 25-cm) size only. Large high-resolution and
higher spatial resolution (4K x 4K) imaging plates are currently
under development to alleviate these constraints. Kogutt [23]
Downloaded from www.ajronline.org by 84.202.255.69 on 10/02/15 from IP address 84.202.255.69. Copyright ARRS. For personal use only; all rights reserved

Fig. 7.-Computed radiograph shows foreign body (glass fragment)
(arrowhead) in subcutaneous tissues of foot with xeroradiographic effect.
Conventional radiograph (not shown) also depicted foreign body; however,
it required repeated exposure with soft-tissue technique.
Fig. 8.-Two computed radiographs with upper thoracic spinal fixation
devices in place.
A, Phosphor plate radiograph appears markedly overexposed owing to
high-density metal altering histogram analysis.
B, Diagnostic computed radiograph was obtained with identical expo-
sure factors; however, sensitivity and latitude were adjusted to account
for metallic fixation devices.
24 MURPHEY ET AL. AJR:i58, January 1992
has described the use of a CR system to measure limb length
discrepancies on radiographs at markedly reduced (96-98%)
radiation dose.
Xeroradiography was once used widely for soft-tissue ex-
aminations because of its edge enhancement effect, which
increases the soft-tissue contrast. A similar effect can be
obtained with phosphor plates with or without the use of an
interactive workstation. Calcifications, opaque foreign bodies,
and soft-tissue neoplasms are particularly well shown without
the need for an additional soft-tissue technique exposure
often required with conventional radiography (Fig. 7). This is
similar to improved visualization of soft-tissue calcification
that has been shown in the thyroid cartilage and coronary
arteries with CR [24, 25]. In the study by Milos et al. [21], all
observers identified soft-tissue changes more accurately with
CR images than with conventional radiographs.
CR has also been shown to be useful and to have a
diagnostic quality similar to that of conventional film-screen
imaging in the evaluation of Panorex, cephalometric, and
temporomandibular joint radiographs [26, 27]. Microden-
sitometry with high accuracy and good reproducibility in
measuring bone mineral content from metacarpals can be
performed with the phosphor plates [28]. Additional areas
notoriously difficult to adequately visualize with film-screen
techniques are the sternum and sternoclavicular joint. These
are not commonly ordered examinations; however, the wide
latitude of CR offers great advantages when applied to these
difficult areas.
Limitations and Pitfalls
Limitations of CR include high start-up cost in the range of
$200,000-$900,000. These costs are decreasing and are
partially offset by the increased efficiency of CR. Throughput
is limited to less than 60 plates per hour. This may not be
adequate for many radiology departments, thus additional
laser plate scanners may be required.
Imaging problems can arise with the CR system because
of positioning of the patient or extreme differences in density
within the field of view. These factors affect the histogram
analysis used to set the maximum and minimum signal values.
The low-resolution, low-power prescan histogram is analyzed
from a specific region of interest selected on the basis of the
type of examination performed. Incorrect positioning of the
patient or inappropriate selection of the region of interest may
result in a degraded image. Metallic fixation, overlying metal
in trauma-stabilizing devices, and joint replacements within
the region of interest may alter the histogram analysis owing
to the high-density object. This may obscure other structures
and result in the appearance of an overexposed image (Fig.
8). A similar phenomenon with opposite effect can occur if
too much air is included in the histogram analysis beyond the
field of view. The image will appear underexposed, as can be
seen in lateral hip examinations. These new artifacts seen
with CR can be alleviated by changing the method of selecting
latitude and sensitivity and improved collimation if possible to
exclude these areas from the region of interest.
The film (26 x 36 to 35 x 43 cm) and image sizes vary
with different manufacturers; however, image size for CR
systems is often smaller than for their conventional counter-
part. As an example, image size in our system (Fuji CR 780,
Fuji, Tokyo, Japan) varies from 235 x 235 mm in a one-on-
one format, to 1 78 x 1 78 mm in a two-on-one format, to 117
Downloaded from www.ajronline.org by 84.202.255.69 on 10/02/15 from IP address 84.202.255.69. Copyright ARRS. For personal use only; all rights reserved

AJR:i58, January i992 COMPUTED RADIOGRAPHY IN MUSCULOSKELETAL IMAGING 25
x 1 17 mm in a four-on-one format. This change requires
some adjustment for both radiologist and clinician. In or-
thopedic applications, this may create difficulty in comparison
with conventional radiographs. A scale is printed on each CR
image to help alleviate this problem. Many institutions includ-
ing ours routinely use a two-on-one format with one image
produced to simulate a conventional radiograph and the other
with significant edge enhancement. Edge enhancement im-
proves osseous and trabecular detail and is often preferred
for musculoskeletal images; however, this produces graini-
ness in the image, representing increased perception of noise.
Prokop et al. [1 6] showed that as edge enhancement in-
creased, through unsharp masking, observer performance on
contrast-dependent tasks (cortical defects) deteriorated. This
is the only study of which we are aware that quantitatively
evaluates the effects of edge enhancement on musculoskel-
etal images, and further investigations are needed. Unsharp
mask overshoot artifact (halo effect) may occur in musculo-
skeletal imaging; this is only mild when adjacent to cortical
bone but can be prominent when associated with a metallic
orthopedic implant. This artifactual lucency (Fig. 9) parallels
the margins of the metallic device or cortex and can limit
assessment of osteolysis near joint prostheses, a sign of
loosening and/or infection. The halo effect is accentuated with
edge enhancement and can be eliminated with images pro-
duced to simulate conventional radiographs more closely.
Radiation Dose Reduction
Reduction in radiation dose (reduced exposure and fewer
repeated examinations) can be achieved with CR for most
musculoskeletal examinations without apparent loss of diag-
nostic accuracy. Our experience and that of others suggests
Fig. 9.-Edge-enhanced com-
puted radiograph shows unsharp
mask overshoot artifact-halo ef-
feet (arrowheads)-around femoral
component of cemented total hip
replacement. Computed radiograph
obtained to simulate conventional
radiograph (not shown) eliminated
this artifact. Bone-cement lucency
about acetabular component (ar-
rows) from loosening is also pres-
ent.
that an exposure reduction of 25-50% is possible compared
with standard film-screen technique [1 6, 19]. We performed
a qualitative direct comparison (Murphey MD et al., ARRS
meeting, May 1 991) of CR and conventional radiographs in a
variety of normal and abnormal musculoskeletal examinations
at different percentage exposures compared with conven-
tional techniques by decreasing milliamperage seconds. Some
degradation occurred with lower exposure, as evidenced by
the decrease of phosphor plate images considered superior
(43% at 100% exposure and 26% at 75% exposure) and
increase in conventional radiographs graded as equivalent or
better (3% at 1 00% exposure and 4% at 75% exposure) than
their matching phosphor plate image. However, even at a
50% exposure technique, 93% of CR images were considered
superior or equivalent to their conventional radiograph coun-
terparts. As exposure is decreased, the phosphor plate im-
ages show increased graininess (owing to quantum mottle),
which ultimately reduces spatial resolution. This noise is
accentuated by the increased X-ray attenuation in central
musculoskeletal examinations (spine, pelvis, hips). In these
areas, our observer performance study showed a significant
difference in diagnostic accuracy with CR images at 50%
exposure compared with conventional radiographs (Murphey
MD et al., ARRS meeting, May 1991). Imaging of these central
areas and in patients with large body habitus are more
appropriately performed by using exposures similar to those
of conventional radiography. Exposure technique for periph-
eral extremity radiographs, on the other hand, can be reduced
by at least 50% without loss of diagnostic quality. The maxi-
mum radiation dose reduction possible without loss of diag-
nostic accuracy with CR has not been defined for specific
examinations. These thresholds will most likely depend on
the abnormality present and anatomic location of the radio-
graph and represent a balance between factors of increased
noise vs required spatial resolution.
Interactive Workstation
An interactive workstation is important in the daily operation
of the CR system and is used to retrieve the original scanned
digital data [29]. Digital processing allows manipulation of
contrast, detail, and image noise, which is partially independ-
ent of the exposure factors. This digital capability allows

separation of the parameters used to obtain an image from
those used to display the image. Digital storage and process-
ing can be used to darken underexposed or lighten overex-
posed examinations. This allows salvaging of images improp-
erly obtained from the original digital data, without reexposing
the patient, further increasing the dose reduction capabilities
of the CR system. The “zoom” image capability of the work-
station can be used to examine a small portion of the image
(Fig. 1 0). This improves perception of detail, and display
parameters can be adjusted to best depict images and ab-
normalities. These features of the interactive workstation are
particularly useful in musculoskeletal imaging of fine detail
information such as subperiosteal resorption, nondisplaced
fractures, subtle erosions, and destructive lesions [29, 30].
Soft-tissue abnormalities including neoplasms and foreign
Downloaded from www.ajronline.org by 84.202.255.69 on 10/02/15 from IP address 84.202.255.69. Copyright ARRS. For personal use only; all rights reserved

26 MURPHEY ET AL. AJR:i58, January 1992
Fig. 10.-Osteoblastoma spinous
process of Li.
A, Lateral lumbar spine computed
radiograph shows faint lytic lesion (ar-
rowhead) in 20-year-old woman with
low back pain. Lesion was not well
seen on conventional radiograph (not
shown).
B, “Zoomed” computed radiograph
with reverse gray-scale display after
manipulation on interactive workstation
optimally shows osteoblastoma (ar-
row).
bodies also can be enhanced optimally with the workstation,
even to the degree achieved with xeroradiography. Excessive
processing, filtering, and zooming increase the perception of
noise as graininess, with resultant image degradation. Image
manipulation with the interactive workstation also increases
the time commitment on the part of radiology personnel.
The interactive workstation can create multiple hard copies
from a single exposure, each optimizing an area of interest.
This allows unlimited film duplication from original digital data,
immediately available for any area requiring the image, and
replacement of lost film years after the examination is per-
formed. In musculoskeletal imaging, rapid extra copies are
particularly useful for the emergency department and for
surgery in traumatized patients, allowing retention of first
copy for radiologist interpretation. Image archival can be
performed on optical disk (approximately $400 per disk). Each
disk can store nearly 1 000 examinations and image retrieval
is rapid. Ideally, CR images could be interpreted from the
interactive workstation, rather than laser film printing and film
jacket storage, as currently practiced. If this were possible
without impairment in the quality and efficiency of interpreta-
tions, then the resultant savings in film cost as well as
radiology department time and personnel would go a long
way toward achieving cost-effectiveness for CR technology.
Conclusions
Conversion from conventional film-screen radiography to
digital technology continues to advance because of its nu-
merous advantages. These include improved image process-
ing, storage, retrieval, display, and transmission. The CR
system that uses photostimulable phosphor imaging plates is
a new digital technology with improved X-ray detector effi-
ciency and response. Musculoskeletal radiographic applica-
tions benefit significantly from these advantages, particularly
the wide dynamic range and image processing. We have
attempted to describe and illustrate both advantages (radia-
tion dose reduction, decreased repeat exposure, improved
examination of the spine, scoliosis, soft tissues, and portable
studies) and limitations (high cost, decreased spatial resolu-
tion, restricted throughput, increased noise, and change in
image size and format) of CR in musculoskeletal imaging.
Observer performance studies have not shown a statistically
significant difference between CR and conventional technol-
ogy in musculoskeletal imaging. Exposure reduction of 25-
50% is possible in musculoskeletal radiography, with CR
producing images comparable to those of film-screen tech-
nology, although this depends on the type of examination and
the specific abnormality. In summary, the 2K x 2K x 1 0-bit
CR system with stimulable phosphor plates is an alternative
to conventional film-screen images in evaluation of the mus-
culoskeletal system without significant differences in diagnos-
tic quality. Future research will be directed toward improving
spatial resolution with increasingly efficient phosphor material
and larger matrix systems (4K x 4K) currently being devel-
oped. Throughput must be increased and equipment cost
decreased for use of this technology to become more wide-
spread.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We thank Theresa Stika for manuscript preparation.
REFERENCES
1 . Blume H. Stimulable phosphor systems: technical aspects. In: Peppler
ww, Alter A, eds. Proceedings of chest imaging conference ‘87. Madison,
WI: Department of Medical Physics and Medical Physics Publishing Corp.,
1987:194-207
2. Fujita H, Ueda K, Morishita J, et al. Basic imaging properties of a computed
radiographic system with photostimulable phosphors. Med Phys
1989;i6:52-59
3. Sonoda M, Takano M, Miyabara J, et al. Computed radiography utilizing
scanning laser stimulated luminescence. Radio!ogy 1983;i 48:833-838
4. Merritt CAB, Tutton RH, Bell KA, et al. Clinical application of digital
radiography: computed radiographic imaging. RadioGraphics 1985: :
397-414
5. Huang HK. E!ements of digita! radio!ogy. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-
Hall, 1987
6. Cox GG, Cook LT, McMiIIan JH, Rosenthal Si, Dwyer Si III. Chest
radiography: comparison of high-resolution digital displays with conven-
Downloaded from www.ajronline.org by 84.202.255.69 on 10/02/15 from IP address 84.202.255.69. Copyright ARRS. For personal use only; all rights reserved

AJA:158, January 1992 COMPUTED RADIOGRAPHY IN MUSCULOSKELETAL IMAGING 27
tional and digital film. Radio/ogy 1990; 1 76: 77i -776
7. Foley WD, Wilson CR, Keyes CS, et al. The effect of varying spatial
requirements on the detectability of diffuse pulmonary nodules: assess-
ment with digitized conventional radiographs. Radio/ogy i983;i4i :25-31
8. Goodman LA, Foley WD, Wilson CR, Rimm AA, Lawson TL. Digital and
conventional chest images: observer performance with film digital radiog-
raphy system. Radio/ogy 1986;i 58:27-33
9. Lams PM, Cocklin ML. Spatial resolution requirements for digital chest
radiographs: an ROC study of observer performance in selected cases.
Radio/ogy 1986;i58:ii-i9
10. MacMahon H, Vyborny CJ, Metz CE, Doi K, Sabeti V. Solomon SL. Digital
radiography of subtle pulmonary abnormalities: an ROC study of the effect
of pixel size on observer performance. Radio/ogy 1986:1S8:
21-26
1 1 . Murphey MD. Digital skeletal radiography: spatial resolution requirements
for detection of subperiosteal resorption. AiR 1989;152:54i -546
1 2. Murphey MD, Bramble JM, Cook LT, Martin NL, Dwyer Si III. Nondisplaced
fractures: spatial resolution requirements for detection with digital skeletal
imaging. Radio!ogy 1990;i74:865-870
13. Seeley GW, Fisher HD, Stempski MO, Borgstrom M, Bjelland J, Capp MP.
Total digital radiology department: spatial resolution requirements. AJR
i987;138:421 -426
1 4. Nakano Y, Himoka T, Togashi K, et al. Direct radiographic magnification
with computed radiography. AJR 1987;i48:569-573
15. Giannatempo GM, Bonetti MG, Guglielmi G, Cammisa M. Preliminary
experience of the study of the hand using digital radiology with photo-
excitable phosphorus and direct magnification: comparison with the tradi-
tional high resolution technique. Radio! Med (Torino) 1990:80:649-652
1 6. Prokop M, Galanski M, Oestmann JW, et al. Storage phosphor versus
screen-film radiography: effect of varying exposure parameters and un-
sharp mask filtering on the detectability of cortical bone defects. Radio/ogy
1990;177:109-i 13
1 7. Wilson AJ, Mann FA, Murphy WA Jr. Monsees BS, Linn MR. Photostimul-
able phosphor digital radiography of the extremities: diagnostic accuracy
compared with conventional radiography. AJR 1991:1 7:S33-S38
18. Yang PJ, Seeley GW, Carmody RF, Seeger JF, Yoshino MT, Mockbee B.
Conventional vs computed radiography: evaluation of myelography. AJNR
1988:9: 165-1 68
19. Pettersson H, Aspelin P, Boijsen E, Herrlin K, Egund N. Digital radiography
of the spine, large bones and joints using stimulable phosphor: early clinical
experience. Acta Radio! 1988;29:267-271
20. Kangarboo H, Boechat Ml, Barbaric A, et al. Two year clinical experience
with a computed radiography system. AJR 1988;1 51:605-608
2i . Milos NJ, Aberle DR, Baraff U, Gold RH, Scanlan AL, Bassett LW. Initial
clinical experience with computed radiography imaging in an emergency
department. App! Radio! 1989:18:32-37
22. Kreipke DL, Silver Dl, Tarver AD, Braunstein EM. Readability of cervical
spine imaging: digital versus film/screen radiographs. ComputMed/maging
Graph 1990;14:119-125
23. Kogutt MS. Computed radiographic imaging: use in low dose leg length
radiography. AJR 1987:148:1205-1206
24. Fukatsu H, Makino N, Kodama Y, Ikeda M, Ishi9aki T, Sakuma S. Evalu-
ation of thyroid calcification using computed radiography with image plate.
Eur J Radio! 1989;9:22-28
25. Sakuma H, Takedo K, Hirano T, et al. Plain chest radiograph with computed
radiography: improved sensitivity for the detection of coronary artery
calcification. AJR 1988;1 1:27-30
26. Koubayashi 5, Oguma K, Takata Y, et al. The application of computed
radiography to lateral cephalograms. Nippon Kyosei Shika Gakkai Zasshi
1985;44:2i 7-229
27. Demura N, Omura Y, Takata Y, et al. Radiographic analysis of the move-
ment pattern of the mandibular condyles: an appraisal of subtraction
procedure in computed radiography system. Nippon Kyo.sei Shika Gakkai
Zasshi 1987;46:270-279
28. Yamashita M, Honjo H, Murakami K. Quantitative evaluation of bone
mineral contents of hand bone using CA technique. Nippon Kyosei Shika
Gakkai Zasshi 1989;49:214-216
29. Murphey MD, Bramble JM, Cox GG, McMiIlan JH, Dwyer Si Ill, Harvey
PC. Experience in the use of an image processing workstation for a
photostimulable phosphor radiographic system. J Dig /maging 1990;3:
60-65
30. Murphey MD, Huang B, Siegel EL, Hillman BJ, Bramble JM. Clinical
experience in the use of photostimulable phosphor radiographic system.
Invest Radio! 1991 26: 590-597
Downloaded from www.ajronline.org by 84.202.255.69 on 10/02/15 from IP address 84.202.255.69. Copyright ARRS. For personal use only; all rights reserved
