queueId: ingest-1781569954411-107i
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260520 우크라이나(Licarno) 23G, P1 - 이창민 팀장님/260527 1차 제출본/3.1 [Portable X-ray System] Technical Document/6. Product Verification and Validation/5. Clinical Evaluation Report/Literature/# 97.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/d8c4557e670b/# 97__d8c4557e670b_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: e6e3a09569e7
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: general
pilotRank: 424

SOURCE_TEXT
Fax +41 61 306 12 34
E-Mail karger@karger.ch
www.karger.com
Clinical Section / Original Paper
Gerontology 2012;58:107–111
DOI: 10.1159/000329452
Positive Experience of a Mobile
Radiography Service in Nursing Homes
Karin Eklund a Rosemarie Klefsgård b Bodil Ivarsson c Mats Geijer a
a Centre for Medical Imaging and Physiology, b Hospital Management and c Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery,
Lund University and Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden
most beneficial results were that patients avoided unneces-
sary transport back and forth to the hospital, and that the
majority of patients could be treated locally.
Copyright © 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel
Introduction
For elderly people living in a nursing home, a transfer
to hospital for a radiological examination with a long
absence from home may appear as an almost insur-
mountable obstacle that often leads to increased anxiety
or disorientation. Nagy-Agren and Haley suggest in a
review that it is better for patients to stay in a palliative
care setting at a nursing home than going to the hospital
to be diagnosed with, for example, pneumonia [1]. Like-
wise, Crilly et al. [2] stated that elderly people who need
to leave the nursing home for treatment of acute or
chronic illnesses have their situation complicated by the
presence of comorbid conditions and long waiting times
for transports. Waiting for emergency procedures in the
Radiology Department can be disconcerting for pa-
tients from nursing homes, due to aggravated existing
hearing and visual problems, causing problems in atten-
tion to new environments [3]. A reduction of transfers
from nursing homes to hospitals might reduce health
care costs and limit the risk of iatrogenesis, which might
Key Words
Elderly residents  Geriatric radiology  Mobile X-rays 
Visiting radiologist service
Abstract
Background: For elderly people living in nursing homes, a
transport to hospital for a radiological examination can lead
to increased anxiety, disorientation and other problems re-
lated to the new environment. Objective: To investigate the
usefulness of a mobile radiography service for radiological
assessment of patients in nursing homes from the patient
and staff perspectives. Methods: Lightweight equipment
with a digital flat-panel detector was used for mobile radiog-
raphy on nursing home patients in their own rooms. Data on
patient and staff experiences from the service were collect-
ed using a questionnaire with closed and open-ended ques-
tions. Image quality was evaluated by the radiographer and
a radiologist. Results: The majority of 241 radiography ex-
aminations were of the musculoskeletal system (94%).
Twelve of 123 patients had pathology that required hospital
treatment, while 22 patients with radiographic pathology
could be treated locally. The main beneficial factors were se-
curity and comfort, acceptance from the patients, no need
for transportation, no need for staff to be absent from the
nursing homes. Conclusion: Mobile radiography in nursing
homes is technically feasible, with good image quality. The
Received: April 7, 2011
Accepted: May 19, 2011
Published online: August 23, 2011
Mats Geijer, MD, PhD
Centre for Medical Imaging and Physiology, Skåne University Hospital
Getingevägen 4
SE–221 85 Lund (Sweden)
Tel. +46 46 173 083, E-Mail mats.geijer @ skane.se
© 2011 S. Karger AG, Basel
0304–324X/12/0582–0107$38.00/0
Accessible online at:
www.karger.com/ger
Downloaded by:
 Emory University
 198.143.47.65 - 1/26/2016 10:29:28 PM

Eklund /Klefsgård /Ivarsson /Geijer Gerontology 2012;58:107–111 108
improve the outcomes of acute diseases in the nursing
homes [4].
There are few reports on mobile radiography services
in nursing homes [5–7]. The concept was further refined
in Norway in 2004, where the service was offered to nurs-
ing homes using a lightweight digital detector and radio-
graphic generator [8]. The knowledge and experience of
using mobile radiography services for patients in nursing
homes is sparse. Radiography services in patients’ homes
have been used previously in Hospital at Home programs
[9, 10]. To our knowledge, no study has described pa-
tients’ or nursing staff experience of using a mobile radi-
ography service in order to reduce patients’ discomfort
from being away from their normal environment in a
community-based long-term care, to reduce nursing
home staff absence and to reduce the loads on the Radiol-
ogy Department and the Emergency Department at the
hospital.
Consequently, the aim of the current study was to in-
vestigate the usefulness of a mobile radiography service
for radiological assessment of patients in nursing homes
from the patient and staff perspectives.
Methods and Materials
The prospective descriptive study was conducted in accor-
dance with the Helsinki declaration. In an initial feasibility study,
the senior head nurses in 10 municipalities surrounding the city
of Lund, responsible for the nursing home operation in that mu-
nicipality, answered a questionnaire about the need for a mobile
radiography service. Their replies were in turn based on questions
directed to the registered nurses of nursing homes in their respec-
tive municipality about patients’ absences from the nursing
homes for radiography services. The nursing homes were typi-
cally staffed by assistant nurses and nurses’ aides. During day-
time, there is usually a registered nurse on duty, but at night and
during weekends the registered nurse is on call, servicing several
nursing homes. One or more local general practitioners were con-
sulted by the registered nurse at the nursing home as needed for
continuing care and for medical emergencies that did not require
obvious immediate ambulance transport to the emergency room
at the hospital.
Intervention
Based on the results from the initial feasibility study, all 25
nursing homes in the Lund municipality (about 110,000 inhabi-
tants), caring for about 850 patients, participated in the study.
This part of the study was performed during the period Septem-
ber 16, 2008 to September 15, 2009 but did not cover the summer
and winter vacation periods, during which time the mobile radi-
ography service was unavailable. The study included 123 patients
(table 1). A mobile radiography service was used to perform 241
different radiography examinations (1.96 examinations per pa-
tient) in the nursing homes (table 2).
Information about radiation protection was supplied to the
nursing staff. Manuals about daily routines for referral manage-
ment were distributed to the referring physicians and to the nurs-
ing home staff. The nursing homes had to install a 16 A outlet to
provide power for the radiography generator. The radiographs
were obtained with the patient lying or sitting down in their own
room by the radiographer, sometimes with help from the local
nursing staff. The mobile radiography service was available dur-
ing office hours. All radiographs were obtained with the same
mobile unit, consisting of one Canon DR CXDI-50 G digital flat-
panel detector (Canon Europe, Ltd., Stockley Park, UK) attached
to a Sedecal Mobile Dragon radiography unit with a Radpro gen-
erator (Sedecal, Madrid, Spain). The radiographer transported
the mobile unit in a small van equipped with a lift for the radio-
graphic equipment. The equipment had originally been designed
for military field use. Weighing only 90 kg, it was portable enough
for mobile use in nursing homes. The radiographer drove the van
to one or more nursing homes before returning to the hospital,
depending on the number of requests. At times, several trips a day
were necessary.
With the use of the digital detector with instant read-out, it
was possible for the radiographer to evaluate image quality on site,
both regarding exposure and positioning. Since wireless commu-
nication with the hospital proved slow and unreliable, images
were transferred to the picture archiving and communications
system at the hospital by wired connection once the van returned.
The time from radiography exposure to reporting was calculated
based on the electronic time stamps on the images and the radiol-
ogy reports.
Data Collection
The nursing home nurses’ views on the mobile radiography
service were collected using a questionnaire containing closed
and open-ended questions for each patient. The closed questions
were either dichotomous or multiple choice such as ‘how would
the patient be transported if the mobile service was not available?’,
‘would staff from the nursing home be required to accompany the
patient?’ The questionnaire also included questions such as ‘ad-
Table 1. Demographic data for 123 patients
Total
(n = 123)
Female
(n = 103)
Male
(n = 20)
Mean age 86.8 87.5 83.5
Age range 53–103 59–103 53–95
Table 2. Distribution of mobile radiographic examinations in
nursing homes (n = 241)
Hip/pelvis 138 (57%)
Remaining musculoskeletal studies 88 (37%)
Chest 10 (4%)
Abdomen 5 (2%)
Downloaded by:
 Emory University
 198.143.47.65 - 1/26/2016 10:29:28 PM

Positive Experience of a Mobile
Radiography Service in Nursing Homes
Gerontology 2012;58:107–111 109
vantages and disadvantages from the nurse’s point of view’, ‘ad-
vantages and disadvantages from the patient’s point of view’, if
possible.
The questions were tested for content and face validity by an
expert panel of one radiologist, one general practitioner who was
also the director of the primary care service in the district, two
radiographers (including one of the authors), one senior head
nurse responsible for all nursing homes in one municipality, one
hospital economist, and the senior head nurse at the university
hospital (one of the authors). Prior to distribution, two registered
nurses from nursing homes, not participating in the study, were
asked to review the questions in order to determine their validity.
The demography section was filled out by a radiographer and cov-
ered the image quality for each patient, if the examination was
requested urgently or not, which type of examination had been
performed, whether the radiographer received help from the local
nursing staff, and patient age and sex. The radiological studies
were reported as part of the normal routine by one of the staff ra-
diologists. To investigate the image quality, a radiologist (one of
the authors) also filled out a form concerning image quality and
technical parameters, pathology detected, radiological diagnosis,
and whether the diagnostic information was comparable to that
from similar examinations performed in the radiology depart-
ment (i.e. comparison with the gold standard). Finally, the out-
come of the radiography examinations on each patient’s treat-
ment was analyzed by telephone survey. The patients’ views were
collected on the same questionnaire as the nurses’ responses, us-
ing an open-ended question ‘how was your experience of the ra-
diology procedure?’ by the nurse.
Results
The results from the initial feasibility study showed
that patients often were absent from the nursing homes
for a very long time during their radiography examina-
tions. Fifty percent of the answers from the nursing
homes stated that the patients usually were absent for 4–
5 h for a visit to the Radiology Department at the hospital.
In 13%, the answers stated more than 5 h, the rest 2–5 h
(table 3). Time was mostly spent waiting, or in transit,
while the radiographic procedures proper were seen as
taking comparatively short time. The radiographic ex-
aminations on the patients during the month preceding
the initial feasibility study had been musculoskeletal ex-
aminations (59%), chest examinations (31%), and abdom-
inal studies (10%). This confirmed a large interest from
the local registered nurses in having access to mobile ra-
diography in the nursing homes.
In the intervention part of the study, all requests for
radiography were provided by local physicians associated
with the respective nursing homes after a clinical exami-
nation of the patient. The indications for radiography
were trauma or pain for the musculoskeletal examina-
tions, and dyspnea or suspected pneumonia for the chest
examinations. The majority of radiography examina-
tions were of the musculoskeletal system (n = 226). Hip
or pelvic studies accounted for 57% of all radiography ex-
aminations, the remaining musculoskeletal studies for
37%, chest radiographs for 4% and abdominal radio-
graphs for 2% (table 2).
About half of the requests (n = 56) were for urgent ra-
diography examinations, requesting radiography on the
same day. Of the 123 patients, 36 (29%) had significant
pathology. Thirty-four of these patients had musculo-
skeletal pathology (94%), 2 patients were suffering from
chest pathology (6%). The radiologic diagnoses included
pelvic fractures, pelvic metastases, hip fractures, and
loosening of total hip arthroplasty, among others. The
significant chest pathology included pleural fluid. The
mean time from radiography exposure to reporting was
2 h 10 min (range 46 min to 5 h 30 min). One patient only
had to have repeat radiography at the hospital due to un-
derexposed images. In all other cases, image quality was
adequate for diagnosis.
Of the 34 patients with musculoskeletal pathology, 10
patients had to visit the emergency room immediately for
treatment with plaster casting or surgery. Two patients
had scheduled visits in the orthopedic clinic, and the re-
maining 22 patients could be treated locally in the nurs-
ing home by the local physicians or nurses with bandages,
pain relief, or antibiotics. The patients with chest pathol-
ogy could be treated locally. The patients with normal or
incidental findings did not need treatment or transfer to
the hospital.
The responses from the local staff in the nursing
homes were in all 123 cases positive. They pointed out
three main beneficial factors: the security and comfort
for the patients who could remain in their usual environ-
ment; no need for transportation, and no need for staff to
be absent from the nursing homes while accompanying
patients to the hospital. In all instances, there was a good
patient acceptance of the radiographic procedure, and
the 62 patients who were able to answer the questionnaire
Table 3. Reported time away from the nursing homes for radio-
graphic procedures at the local hospital
2–5 h 37%
4–5 h 50%
>5 h 13%
Mean times, based on estimates by the local head nurses.
Downloaded by:
 Emory University
 198.143.47.65 - 1/26/2016 10:29:28 PM

Eklund /Klefsgård /Ivarsson /Geijer Gerontology 2012;58:107–111 110
gave a favorable response. Examples of the three most
common answers from the patients were ‘happy about
not having to go away’, ‘feeling safe’, ‘much better than at
the hospital’. No patient gave a negative opinion of the
procedure. One patient responded feeling sorry for the
radiographer who had to travel so far to examine her.
Discussion
In the current study, it has been shown that it is feasible
to use a mobile radiography service in nursing homes,
with excellent technical results, good patient acceptance,
and high nursing staff acceptance, in accordance with a
previous study [8].
A digital detector was used to acquire the radiograph-
ic images, similar to a previous study [8]. In earlier re-
ports, similar services have used conventional film-
screen techniques [6, 7], with a long delay from the expo-
sure in a nursing home to developing the radiographic
film in the radiology department, without any way of as-
sessing the image quality on site [7]. Loeb et al. [7] report-
ed that the observer agreement among four radiologists
evaluating 40 mobile chest radiographs from nursing
homes obtained on film was only ‘fair’. They stated that
treatment decisions need to include clinical findings and
should not be made based on radiographic findings alone.
However, with the modern techniques used in the current
study, the radiographer has the ability to evaluate image
quality on-site by an instant read-out, displayed on a
monitor on the radiography equipment, and if necessary
do a re-take. It was also evident in the current study that
image quality in general was very high, with excellent po-
sitioning and exposure, and of all patients, only one need-
ed a repeat study at the hospital due to underexposed im-
ages.
In this study, only 12 of 123 patients had radiographic
pathology that required hospital visits for treatment. The
rest of the patients could be treated locally, thus permit-
ting considerable improvements in comfort and safety for
the patient, and permitting considerable savings in time
not spent waiting or in transit. Waiting for the diagnostic
examination, treatment or care is common, but it can be
assumed that it is better to wait in the normal environ-
ment than in a hospital. The possibility of providing a
mobile radiography service greatly improves the diag-
nostic capabilities locally in the nursing homes. This is
important, since transports to a hospital-based Radiolo-
gy Department are time-consuming and costly. The op-
posite scenario, where necessary diagnostic procedures
are not performed because of transportation issues, is
equally bad [11, 12]. It has been argued that even chest
radiographs of less than perfect quality may be of great
importance if the alternative is to prescribe antibiotics for
a suspected chest infection based only on clinical signs
[13]. In a previous study by Sawyer et al. [6], 38 of 54 ex-
aminations were of the chest, in contrast to the present
study where only 4% were chest radiographs. This might
be due to higher X-ray tube capabilities and thus the abil-
ity to better image dense body parts such as the pelvis,
which combined with the instant read-out on the moni-
tor on the generator facilitates image quality control. It
might, however, also be due to differences in patient pop-
ulations. They also estimated that the radiographic stud-
ies led to a change in patient management in 25 of 50 pa-

tients, which is higher than in the present study [6].
It is evident from several previous reports that avail-
ability of radiography in patients’ homes is in demand,
that the lack of this may compromise patient safety and
the possibility of receiving a correct diagnosis [14], and
also that patient transfers may be detrimental to patient
health and even induce iatrogenesis [4]. Demented or dis-
oriented patients may have their condition worsened [15].
Sund-Levander et al. [14] reported that suspected pneu-
monia should be confirmed by radiography, but that it is
not done to a sufficient extent in nursing homes because
of the need of transport to hospital. Conversely, Loeb et
al. [7] found that mobile radiography in nursing homes is
a reasonable alternative to transfer older adults for radi-
ography at the hospital, and that one way to diagnose
pneumonia in older adults at nursing homes is to use mo-
bile radiography which can lead to reduced hospitaliza-
tions and health care costs [16]. Similarly, it has been
shown that telemedicine, i.e. monitoring respiratory rate,
blood pressure, pulse oximetry, and patient weight for re-
cently discharged older patients, leads to lower rehospi-
talization rates and lower Emergency Department visit
rates [17]. Although Dosa [18], in a literature review,
agreed that considerable cost savings can be made when
pneumonia is treated in the nursing home rather than
when the patient is transferred to the hospital, it was
highlighted that there could be local difficulties such as
obtaining antibiotics quickly and sometimes having in-
adequate staffing in nursing homes to care for ill patients.
Patient acceptance of the radiography procedures were
in all instances good, and all patients able to respond gave
a favorable opinion on being able to have the radiography
procedure done locally. Rai [19] stated that when working
with elderly patients, gaining consent can be problematic
due to physical and mental impairments, which may hin-
Downloaded by:
 Emory University
 198.143.47.65 - 1/26/2016 10:29:28 PM

Positive Experience of a Mobile
Radiography Service in Nursing Homes
Gerontology 2012;58:107–111 111
der the information and communication process between
the radiographer and patient during mobile radiography
provided in nursing homes. Although patient acceptance
was good, it is essential that the radiographer is aware of
the special situation of being in the patient’s home. The
radiographer must also remember that tone of voice, at-
titude, and character when meeting the patient are crucial
in deciding how the relationship with the individual pa-
tient develops. Sometimes, the radiographer needed help
from the local nursing staff, and such collaboration with
different professional categories is included in the radiog-
rapher profession [20].
A limitation of the study is that the data for the situa-
tion before the intervention are based on estimates of
time by the local registered nurses. Such estimation is, of
course, very biased by subjective sense of time, and by
recollection bias.
After this study was completed, nine more municipal-
ities have been included, with the mobile radiography
service coming from the same hospital. A previous health
economy analysis [21] has shown that it is economically
sound, from a societal perspective, to introduce mobile
radiographic services in larger cities and densely popu-
lated areas. Nevertheless, further research is needed re-
garding costs of using mobile radiography outside hospi-
tals. Moreover, to determine the patients’ reactions, a
qualitative study could be valuable.
A mobile radiography service could equally well be
used in other care areas such as hospices for palliative
care, group dwellings for people with intellectual disabil-
ities, in screening for tuberculosis or SARS in homeless
people living in shelters, and in prisons and forensic psy-
chiatric institutions. Hypothetically, the technique could
also be used for simple fracture controls, provided that
the local physicians could manage the clinical part of the
follow-up.
Conclusion
Mobile radiography in nursing homes is technically
feasible, with good image quality. The most beneficial re-
sult was that most patients avoided unnecessary trans-
port back and forth to the hospital, and that the majority
of patients could be treated locally. Fewer transports from
nursing homes to the local hospital may reduce health
care costs, and by limiting the risk of iatrogenesis im-
prove the outcome of illnesses occurring in the nursing
homes.
References
1 Nagy-Agren S, Haley HB: Management of
infections in palliative care patients with ad-
vanced cancer. J Pain Symptom Manage
2002; 24: 64–70.
2 Crilly J, Chaboyer W, Wallis M: Continuity
of care for acutely unwell older adults from
nursing homes. Scand J Caring Sci 2006; 20:
122–135.
3 Kihlgren AL, Nilsson M, Skovdahl K, Palm-
blad B, Wimo A: Older patients awaiting
emergency department treatment. Scand J
Caring Sci 2004; 18: 169–176.
4 Brooks S, Warshaw G, Hasse L, Kues JR: The
physician decision-making process in trans-
ferring nursing home patients to the hospi-
tal. Arch Intern Med 1994; 154: 902–908.
5 Robson AM: A country practice’s use of
domiciliary radiology. Practitioner 1984;
228: 633–636.
6 Sawyer RH, Patel U, Horrocks AW: Domi-
ciliary radiography: an important service?
Clin Radiol 1995; 50: 51–55.
7 Loeb MB, Carusone SB, Marrie TJ, et al: In-
terobserver reliability of radiologists’ inter-
pretations of mobile chest radiographs for
nursing home-acquired pneumonia. J Am
Med Dir Assoc 2006; 7: 416–419.
8 Laerum F, Amdal T, Kirkevold M, et al: Mov-
ing equipment, not patients: mobile, net-
based digital radiography to nursing home
patients. Int Congr Ser 2005; 1281: 922–925.
9 Marsteller JA, Burton L, Mader SL, et al:
Health care provider evaluation of a substi-
tute model of hospital at home. Med Care
2009; 47: 979–985.
10 Leff B, Burton L, Mader SL, et al: Hospital at
home: feasibility and outcome of a program
to provide hospital-level care at home for
acutely ill older patients. Ann Intern Med
2005; 143: 798–808.
11 Eastwood HD: Delayed diagnosis of femo-
ral-neck fractures in the elderly. Age Ageing
1987; 16: 378–382.
12 Pathak G, Parker MJ, Pryor GA: Delayed di-
agnosis of femoral neck fractures. Injury
1997; 28: 299–301.
13 Drinka PJ: Inter-observer reliability of radi-
ologists’ interpretation of mobile chest ra-
diographs for nursing home-acquired pneu-
monia. J Am Med Dir Assoc 2006; 7: 467–469.
14 Sund-Levander M, Ortqvist A, Grodzinsky E,
Klefsgård Ö, Wahren LK: Morbidity, mortal-
ity and clinical presentation of nursing home-
acquired pneumonia in a Swedish population.
Scand J Infect Dis 2003; 35: 306–310.
15 Björkelund KB, Hommel A, Thorngren KG,
Gustafson L, Larsson S, Lundberg D: Reduc-
ing delirium in elderly patients with hip frac-
ture: a multi-factorial intervention study.
Acta Anaesthesiol Scand 2010; 54: 678–688.
16 Loeb M, Carusone Soo C, Goeree R, et al: Ef-
fect of a clinical pathway to reduce hospital-
izations in nursing home residents with
pneumonia: a randomized controlled trial.
JAMA 2006; 295: 2503–2510.
17 Cardozo L, Steinberg J: Telemedicine for re-
cently discharged older patients. Telemed J E
Health 2010; 16: 49–55.
18 Dosa D: Should I hospitalize my resident
with nursing home-acquired pneumonia? J
Am Med Dir Assoc 2005; 6: 327–333.
19 Rai GS: Medical Ethics and the Elderly, ed 3.
Oxford, Radcliffe, 2009.
20 Andersson BT, Fridlund B, Elgan C, Axels-
son AB: Radiographers’ areas of professional
competence related to good nursing care.
Scand J Caring Sci 2008; 22: 401–409.
21 Mobile Radiography Services to Nursing
Homes. An Analysis of the Economic Impact
on Society (in Norwegian). Oslo, PriceWa-
terhouseCooper, 2006, pp 1–32.
Downloaded by:
 Emory University
 198.143.47.65 - 1/26/2016 10:29:28 PM
