queueId: ingest-1781569954392-mcz
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260520 우크라이나(Licarno) 23G, P1 - 이창민 팀장님/260527 1차 제출본/3.1 [Portable X-ray System] Technical Document/6. Product Verification and Validation/5. Clinical Evaluation Report/Literature/# 96.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/6e64d01e79a9/# 96__6e64d01e79a9_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: f2b0f078603f
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: general
pilotRank: 429

SOURCE_TEXT
Disclaimer: The Rapid Response Service is an information service for those involved in planning and providing health care in
Canada. Rapid responses are based on a limited literature search and are not comprehensive, systematic review s. The intent is to
provide a list of sources of the best evidence on the topic that CADTH could identify using all reasonable efforts w ithin the time
allow ed. Rapid responses should be considered along w ith other types of information and health care considerations. The
information included in this response is not intended to replace professional medical advice, nor should it be construed as a
recommendation for or against the use of a particular health technology. Readers are also cautioned that a lack of good quality
evidence does not necessarily mean a lack of effectiveness particularly in the case of new and emerging health technologies, for
w hich little information can be found, but w hich may in future prove to be effective. While CADTH has taken care in the preparation
of the report to ensure that its contents are accurate, complete and up to date, CADTH does not make any guarantee to that ef fect.
CADTH is not liable for any loss or damages resulting from use of the information in the report.
Copyright: This report contains CADTH copyright material and may contain material in w hich a third party ow ns copyright. This
report m ay be used for the purposes of rese arch or private study only. It may not be copied, posted on a w eb site,
redistributed by email or stored on an electronic system w ithout the prior w ritten permission of CADTH or applicable copyrigh t
ow ner.
Links: This report may contain links to other information available on the w ebsites of third parties on the Internet. CADTH does not
have control over the content of such sites. Use of third party sites is governed by the owners’ own terms and conditions .
TITLE: Portable versus Fixed X-ray Equipment: A Review of the Clinical Effectiveness,
Cost-effectiveness, and Guidelines
DATE: 22 February 2016
CONTEXT AND POLICY ISSUES
Portable X-ray has been an useful tool for the diagnosis and monitoring of patients in the
intensive care units,1,2 in nursing homes,3 in prisons, or in shelters for the homeless,4 where
transfer to the hospital radiology department may be an obstacle. The diagnostic efficacy of
portable chest X-ray - or bedside chest X-ray - (defined as the number of chest X-rays showing
new findings or changes to known findings divided by the total number of chest X-rays) for
patients admitted to the intensive care unit has been reported to be 84.5%.5 Mobile radiography
services for radiological assessment of patients in nursing homes have shown to be technically
feasible, with good image quality, and beneficial factors such as the security and comfort of
patients, no need for transportation, and no need for staff to be absent from the nursing home to
accompany the patients. One out of 123 patients (241 radiography examinations) had to have
repeat radiography at the hospital because of underexposed images while image quality for the
rest was adequate for diagnosis.3 Mobile digital chest X-ray was found to be sensitive and
specific in detecting pulmonary tuberculosis for homeless populations, drug users and
prisoners.4 Using culture-confirmed cases as comparator, mobile X-ray had a sensitivity of
81.8% (95% confidence interval [CI] 64.5 to 93.0) and a specificity of 99.2% (95% CI 99.1 to
99.3) for the detection of pulmonary tuberculosis.
Despite the advantages of portable X-ray, the image quality of bedside chest radiograph can be
limited,6 and the image interpretation and appropriate clinical action can be affected due to a
decrease in communication between the attending physician and the radiologist.7
This Rapid Response report aims to review the clinical- and cost-effectiveness of portable X-ray
compared to fixed X-ray. Guidelines associated with the use of portable X-ray will also be
examined.

Portable vs. Fixed X-ray 2
RESEARCH QUESTIONS
1. What is the clinical effectiveness of portable x-ray imaging equipment versus fixed x-ray
equipment?
2. What is the cost-effectiveness of portable x-ray imaging equipment versus fixed x-ray
equipment?
3. What are the evidence-based guidelines for the use of portable x-ray equipment?
KEY FINDINGS
There was no evidence found from the literature search comparing the clinical or cost-
effectiveness of portable X-ray to fixed X-ray. No guidelines on the use of portable X-ray were
identified from the literature search.
METHODS
Literature Search Strategy
A limited literature search was conducted on key resources including Ovid Medline, PubMed,
The Cochrane Library, University of York Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD)
databases, Canadian and major international health technology agencies, as well as a focused
Internet search. No filters were applied to limit the retrieval by study type. Where possible,
retrieval was limited to the human population. The search was also limited to English language
documents published between January 1, 2006 and January 22, 2016.
Selection Criteria and Methods
One reviewer screened the titles and abstracts of the retrieved publications and examined the
full-text publications for the final article selection. Selection criteria are outlined in Table 1.
Table 1: Selection Criteria
Population Patients requiring x-ray imaging (chest or bone x-rays)
Intervention Portable X-ray imaging
Comparator Fixed X-ray imaging
Outcomes Clinical effectiveness (e.g. image quality, time to result, diagnostic
accuracy, changes in clinical outcomes)
Cost-effectiveness
Evidence-based guidelines
Study Designs Health technology assessments (HTA), systematic reviews (SR), and
meta-analyses (MA), randomized controlled trials (RCTs), non-RCTs,
economic evaluations, and guidelines.

Portable vs. Fixed X-ray 3
Exclusion Criteria
Articles were excluded if they did not meet the selection criteria in Table 1, if they were
published prior to January 2006 if they were duplicate publications of the same study, or if they
were included in a selected systematic review.
SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE
Quantity of Research Available
The literature search yielded 809 citations. After screening of abstracts from the literature
search and from other sources, six studies were retrieved for full-text review. Upon review of
full-text articles, no study comparing the clinical and cost-effectiveness of portable X-ray to fixed
X-ray was found. There were no guidelines on the use of portable X-ray identified in the
literature search. The PRISMA flowchart in Appendix 1 details the process of the study
selection.
Summary of Findings
No relevant literature was identified pertaining to the comparative clinical or cost-effectiveness
of portable X-ray versus fixed X-ray. Similarly, no evidence-based guidelines regarding the use
of portable X-ray were identified.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR DECISION OR POLICY MAKING
From the literature search from 2006 to 2016, the evidence on the clinical and cost-
effectiveness of portable X-ray compared to fixed X-ray is lacking, and there were no evidence-
based guidelines found for the use of portable X-ray equipment.
PREPARED BY:
Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health
Tel: 1-866-898-8439
www.cadth.ca

Portable vs. Fixed X-ray 4
REFERENCES
1. Gupta PK, Gupta K, Jain M, Garg T. Postprocedural chest radiograph: Impact on the
management in critical care unit. Anesth Essays Res [Internet]. 2014 May [cited 2016 Jan
25];8(2):139-44. Available from:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4173625/?report=printable
2. Eisenhuber E, Schaefer-Prokop CM, Prosch H, Schima W. Bedside chest radiography.
Respir Care [Internet]. 2012 Mar [cited 2016 Jan 25];57(3):427-43. Available from:
http://rc.rcjournal.com/content/57/3/427.full.pdf+html
3. Eklund K, Klefsgard R, Ivarsson B, Geijer M. Positive experience of a mobile radiography
service in nursing homes. Gerontology. 2012;58(2):107-11.
4. Story A, Aldridge RW, Abubakar I, Stagg HR, Lipman M, Watson JM, et al. Active case
finding for pulmonary tuberculosis using mobile digital chest radiography: an observational
study. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2012 Nov;16(11):1461-7.
5. Palazzetti V, Gasparri E, Gambini C, Sollazzo S, Saric S, Salvolini L, et al. Chest
radiography in intensive care: an irreplaceable survey? Radiol Med (Torino). 2013
Aug;118(5):744-51.
6. Rubinowitz AN, Siegel MD, Tocino I. Thoracic imaging in the ICU. Crit Care Clin. 2007
Jul;23(3):539-73.
7. Kundel HL, Seshadri SB, Langlotz CP, Lanken PN, Horii SC, Nodine CF, et al. Prospective
study of a PACS: information flow and clinical action in a medical intensive care unit.
Radiology. 1996 Apr;199(1):143-9.

Portable vs. Fixed X-ray 5
Appendix 1: Selection of Included Studies
803 citations excluded
6 potentially relevant articles
retrieved for scrutiny (full text, if
available)
0 relevant reports
retrieved from other
sources (grey
literature, hand
search)
6 potentially relevant reports
6 reports excluded (irrelevant
population, interventions or
outcomes)
0 reports included in review
809 citations identified from
electronic literature search and
screened
