queueId: ingest-1781569954382-ch7
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/02_ADD (HAD1417MCW)/▶ CE MDD/■ 10. TCF_ADD(HAD1417MCW) 230215 (Rev.5) - Label Update/Attachment 10. Clinical Evaluation/Attachment 10-8 Vigilance System procedure/AQP808 Vigilance System Procedure 211122 Rev.5.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/233fef6784b8/AQP808 Vigilance System Procedure 211122 Rev.5__233fef6784b8_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: c40ea5e72a45
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: general
pilotRank: 447

SOURCE_TEXT
Document Name

Post Market Surveillance &

Vigilance System

Document No

AQP808

-

Rev. No

date

Team Name

Establishment

0

2013.11.10

Sales team

Revision

1

2015.02.11

Quality team

2

2018.02.26

Quality team

3

2019.04.02

Quality team

4

2021.10.15

Quality team

5

2022.11.22

Quality team

We confirm that this management standard has been enacted/revised in accordance with the approval procedures specified in the Standard Document Management Regulation (AQP401), and distribute copies of it, so please follow-up management of the training and management standard to the manager.

2022. 11. 02.

H&abyz Quality Team Leader Namkyu.HUR

Management Standard Circular

Date

Name

signature

Date

Name

signature

2022.11.02

Jeon Jeu

Electronic Approval

2022.11.02

Lee Dongjin

Electronic Approval

2022.11.02

Kim Jonggwang

Electronic Approval

2022.11.02

Yun Yeongsu

Electronic Approval

2022.11.02

Jung Changmu

Electronic Approval

history table of enactment/revision

Enactment Date

Revision Date

Rev. No

Reasons and contents of amendment

person in charge

2013.11.10

-

0

New establishment in accordance with MEDDEV 2.12.1 Guidelines for Boundary Systems

Kim Boseong

2015.02.11

1

Boundary system, latest revision in accordance with MEDDEV 2.12/1 rev.8 guidelines

Post-marketing surveillance, new enactment in accordance with MEDDEV 2.12/2 rev.2 guidelines

Kim Deokhun

2018.02.26

2

Apply Company CI Changes

Kim Deokhun

2019.04.02

3

Revised according to KGMP application

Jung Gyeonggyun

2021.10.15

4

Correct the typo

Jung Gyeonggyun

2022.11.02

5

Correct the typo

Jung Gyeonggyun

Name

Team Name

Date

signature

Written by

KyungGyun. Jeong

Quality Team

2022.11.02

Electronic Approval

Reviewed by

Approved by

Namkyu. HUR

Quality Team

2022.11.02

Electronic Approval

1. Purpose

This procedure aims to reduce the likelihood of recurring side effects at different locations and times, thereby enhancing the protection of the health and safety of patients, users and others, providing systems and guidelines, providing responsibility for collecting and analyzing post-production feedback, and meeting customer requirements. And this objective is achieved by event evaluation and dissemination of information that can be used to prevent or mitigate the recurrence of such incidents.

2. Scope of application

This quality procedure includes actions to be taken immediately after obtaining information on accidents related to medical devices from H&A Biz Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 'our company') in accordance with the Medical Device Guidelines.

3. Definition of Terms

 3.1 Vigilance System, VS

 European Community System for CE Marking

 3.2 Advisory Notice

 Notice containing information about the use, modification, disposal and recall of medical

devices.

 3.3 Recall

 In case of serious health accidents and risk of death, relevant activities for recall,

modification, alteration or disposal in accordance with the guidelines in the advisory

notice.

3.4 Notified Body

 European bodies that approve CE

 3.5 Competent Authorities

 European bodies with the right to CE approval for medical devices

 3.6 Authorized Representative

 A natural or legal person expressly appointed by the manufacturer and recognized in Europe who can act on behalf of the manufacturer in connection with a deed contract in accordance with the Directive.

 3.7 Near Incidents

 A type of event that may result in an imminent risk of death, serious deterioration of health, or serious illness requiring prompt treatment.

 3.8 Feedback System

 Receive information regarding product and corrective action operations to notify you of quality issues.

 3.9 Abnormal Use

 Omission of actions or actions by the operator or user of the medical device as a result of actions beyond risk control by the manufacturer

 3.10 Corrective Action

 Eliminate the causes of potential nonconformities or other undesirable circumstances;

 3.11 Drug/Device combination product

 A medical device that is mixed when the action of a drug or substance is dependent on the device. In this case, follow the medical device guidelines

 3.12 Eudamed = European Commission

 The European Database for the European Commission on Medical Devices collects

The following data.

 1) Medical devices shipped to the common market and materials related to

manufacturer registration

 2) Materials related to issued, altered, added, suspended, revoked or disapproved

 certificates

 3) Data obtained in accordance with the Boundary System Procedures

 4) Clinical research related dat

 3.13 Field Safety Corrective Action, FSCA

 Field safety measures are measures taken by manufacturers to reduce the risk of death or deterioration of serious health conditions associated with the use of medical devices already on the market. Such action shall be reported and notified through on-site safety measures, whether or not related to direct or indirect harm.

3.14 Field Safery Notice, FSN

 Notice from manufacturer or agent to customer or user regarding field safety corrective action

 3.15 Harm

 Physical injury or damage to human health or damage to property or the environment.

 3.16 Immediately

 For the purposes of this guidance, “IMMEDIATELY” means without any unjustifiable delay. 3.17 Incident

 Incomplete labeling or instruction manual, as well as malfunction or degradation of the device's characteristics and performance, may directly or indirectly result in the death of patients, users and others, or serious deterioration of health conditions.

 3.18 Indirect Harm

 In most cases, diagnostic devices (IVDs) and medical devices (IVF/ART) for use do not directly cause physical harm or damage to a person's

 3.19 Intended Purpose

 intended use of devices in accordance with materials supplied by the manufacturer for labeling, usage, or promotional materials.

 3.20 Manufacturer

 A natural person or corporation responsible for the design, manufacture, packaging and labeling of the device prior to shipment to the product under the name of its own manufacturer, whether the operation is performed by the manufacturer alone or by an agent or a third party

 3.21 Medical Device

 In accordance with the Medical Device Directive (90/385/EEC, 93/42/EEC and 98/79/EEC), combination instruments, devices, tools, or other items used, including software intended by the manufacturer to be used in humans

 - Diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of suffering.

 - Diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, mitigation or compensation for injury or disability.

 - Investigation, replacement or modification of anatomical or physiological processes.

 - pregnancy control

 3.22 Operator

 the person handling the equipment.

 3.23 Periodic Summary Reporting

 Periodic summary reporting is an alternative reporting scheme between a manufacturer and a national administrative authority to report similar incidents of the same product or product class in an integrated manner where the root cause is known or a Field Safety Corrective Action (FSCA) is implemented.

 3.24 Serious Public Health Threat

 Types of events that may result in an imminent risk of death, serious deterioration of health, or serious illness requiring prompt treatment.

 3.25 Trend Reporting

 The type of reporting used by manufacturers when there is a significant increase in events not considered common accidents.

 3.26 Unanticipated

 A deterioration in health status is considered "unexpected" if the conditions leading to the event are not taken into account in the risk analysis.

 3.27 User Error

 Actions or omissions of actions that have other consequences intended by the manufacturer of the medical device or predicted by the operator

 3.28 User

 A health care institution, professional, nurse or patient who uses or maintains a medical device.

4. Responsibilities and Authority

 4.1 President

 Responsibility and authority for the approval of notices of recommendations, agreements with European authorized agents and declarations of conformity.

 4.2 Quality Management Representative, QMR

 Responsible and competent for review of Recommendations Notices, Contracts with European Authorized Agents and Declarations of Conformity.

 4.3 Quality Control Manager

 Responsibility and authority for correcting and analyzing post-production information, resolving problems specified in the recommendation notice, and preparing and reviewing post-marketing information.

 4.4 Sales Department

 It has the responsibility and authority to review and determine the entire process from investigation to handling of accidents.

 4.5 Sales Manager

 Responsibility and authority to receive and understand information about accidents from domestic/overseas government agencies, agencies, or equipment users.

 4.6 Customer Service Department

 It has overall responsibility and authority for resolving equipment accidents occurring at home and abroad.

5. Working process

 5.1 Vigilance System

5.1.1 Definition of Boundary System Correspondence

 5.1.1.1 The vigilance system is intended to allow for interrelated data between administrative authorities and manufacturers, and to facilitate corrective action earlier than when data is collected and action is taken on a state-by-state basis..

 5.1.1.2 While the manufacturer is responsible for taking the necessary action, the administrative authority shall review the effectiveness of the manufacturer's follow-up of the reported incident and take any further action necessary to supplement the manufacturer's activities.

 5.1.1.3 When corrective actions are identified, hospital administrators, physicians, health professionals and user representatives responsible for the maintenance and safety of the medical device may take the necessary actions and should do so in cooperation with the manufacturer.

 5.1.1.4 Administrative authorities may monitor the history of products of the same type produced by different manufacturers.

 5.1.2 General principles

 5.1.2.1 Information held by administrative authorities in relation to the perimeter system shall be kept confidential as provided for in the relevant Directive Articles. And in order to achieve the purpose of the alert system, incident reports must be available upon request and submitted confidentially to other administrative authorities.

 5.1.2.2 The act of reporting an incident to the administrative authorities shall not be construed as an admission of liability for accidents and consequences, and a written report may disclaim this effect.

 5.1.2.3 An initial report of an incident according to the alert system is prepared directly by the manufacturer for submission to the administrative authorities responsible for the recording and evaluation. And while each initial report must reach the final report, not every initial report will result in corrective action.

 5.1.2.4 The manufacturer warrants the person responsible for placing the product on the market and an authorized representative located within the European Economic Area (EEA).

 5.1.2.5 The manufacturer notifies the relevant certification body of events that may affect certification. However, the task of administrative authorities to monitor the manufacturer's investigations remains.

5.1.3 Vigilance System Procedures

 5.1.3.1 The QMR (Quality Management Representative) reviews the guidelines on the types of incidents to be reported when the following accidents occur, decides on a report that considers the following, and receives approval from the CEO.

 1) Incidents that require reporting are defined in the guidance document as follows.

 (1) Accidents resulting in death.

 (2) Accidents that cause serious deterioration in the health of patients, users or others

 - Life-threatening illness or injury.

 - Permanent impairment of bodily functions or permanent damage to bodily structures

 - A condition that requires medical or surgical intervention to prevent permanent impairment of bodily functions or permanent damage to bodily structures.

 (3) Accidents that could result in death or serious health deterioration

 - Product-related accidents.

 - An accident that, if reoccurring, could result in death or serious deterioration of health.

 - Factors that could have caused the accident, including death or serious deterioration of health

 Information or scientific literature supplied with the product or test or investigation of the product that implies (e.g., deterioration of characteristics or performance or information defects).

 - Any malfunction or degradation of performance when used in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions should be recognized as a failure of the product for its intended purpose. It also excludes only problematic conditions that are not bodily injury and product aging.

 - Includes problems caused by unexpected biological effects in relation to the product.

 - Inaccuracies in labeling and instructions for use.

 2) Determination of whether the accident is medical device related or caused by a

 medical device defect (see MEDDEV 2.12-1 rev8 Annex 1).

 5.1.3.2 Initial Report

 To prevent proximity accidents, accidents with the potential of product and information defects must be detected and the manufacturer must report it to the national administrative authority as soon as possible.

 (Accident report within 10 days, and close accident report within 30 days)

1) The quality management agent submits the initial incident report to the national administrative authority for recording and evaluation. and Class 2 or 3 as specified in Annex 2, and incidents involving IVDs (in vitro diagnostics) or devices for self-testing, as well as device accidents occurring in countries other than the European Economic Area (EEA) and incidents resulting in corrective action It must be submitted to the administrative authority of the country in which the certification body carrying out the certification which results in the CE mark being affixed to the product is located. 2) If applicable, notify the European sales representative or European representative.

 3) The initial report contains the following provisions:

 (1) Contact information including full name, authorized representative's name, address and fax number.

 (2) The date of the accident known to the manufacturer.

 (3) Medical device type, trade name, catalog number/model, serial/batch/lot number, software version.

 (4) Identification number of the certification body involved in the conformity assessment procedure.

 (5) Accident-related products or accessories.

 (6) Date, patient and details including user.

 (7) The current location of the product involved in the accident.

 (8) The contact information of the user where the incident occurred.

 (9) Preliminary comments from the manufacturer.

 (10) Next plan or corrective action schedule.

 (11) A statement of whether you are aware of a similar incident affecting your current incident.

 (12) Reference/date of incidents and reports reported to administrative authorities, if applicable.

 (13) Other EEA (European Economic Area) countries where the product is known to be sold.

. 4) Reported Incident or Product Information

 Consider the following cases.

 (1) General physician's opinion based on valid evidence.

 (2) Conclusion of the pre-reported incident.

 (3) Evidence of existing or similar events.

 (4) Other evidence held by the manufacturer.

 (5) Malfunction or performance degradation of product functions and characteristics (excluding performance degradation due to product aging)

 (6) Inaccuracies in labels and instructions for use

 (7) Report the above and keep the file.

 5.1.3.3 Investigation

 1) After the initial report, the quality management agent (QMR) will usually initiate an investigation and report the process to the administrative authority. The administrative authority conducts the review and, if necessary, conducts an independent investigation. At that time, the manufacturer shall assist the administrative authorities, and the review shall include the following provisions:

 (1) Act or method of investigation.

 (2) process or schedule.

 (3) result.

 2) Investigations may include.

 (1) product quality.

 (2) post-market period.

 (3) Detailed information of design changes.

 3) Contact information of the certification body, user, administrative authority, and testing body.

 4) If the manufacturer is unable to conduct an accident investigation, he shall inform the administrative authorities without delay.

 5.1.3.4 Actions

 1) Results include the following examples.

 (1) non-action.

 (2) Additional monitoring or follow-up management of products in use.

 (3) Dissemination of information to users (eg, through advisory notices).

 (4) Corrective action for future production.

 (5) Corrective action for the product in use.

 (6) recall.

 2) systematic recall

Manufacturers must issue advisory notices in the event of a recall. A copy of the advisory notice shall be located at the national administrative authority of the country applicable to the Class 2 or Class 3 or IVDs (in vitro diagnostic) or self-test devices specified in Annex 2, the certifying body performing the certification that results in the CE mark being affixed to the device. Administrative authority of the country where the manufacturer's registered place of business is located in accordance with Article 14, the administrative authority of the country where Class 1 or IVDs (in vitro diagnostics) are not intended for self-testing as specified in Annex 2; must be submitted to Manufacturers should consider submitting to the administrative authority a copy of the Notice of Recommendation under the cover of a report that has the same structure as the final report.

 5.1.3.5 Completion of Investigation and File

 The QMR (Quality Management Representative) takes action on the incident and reports it to the administrative authority upon completion. The administrative authorities file the final report of the manufacturer and refer to other opinions. The dossier may then be marked as "closed" and the administrative authority notifies the manufacturer immediately when the dossier is closed. 5.2 시판 후 감시(Post-Market Surveillance)

5.2.1 customer feedback system

 5.2.1.1 The customer feedback system is for collecting and analyzing information about product performance after production. The purpose is to provide warnings about quality problems in advance and to put them into the corrective and preventive action process.

 5.2.1.2 Feedback information is collected from the following sources:

 • Customer, User and Patient Complaints: Complaints are collected, classified and analyzed by the customer service team in accordance with the customer complaint regulations in the quality procedure, and product quality related complaints are forwarded to the quality assurance team for root cause evaluation and investigation.

 • Defective or Other Nonconforming Goods Returned by Customer: Returns claiming to be defective or nonconforming in accordance with the nonconforming product management provisions of the quality procedures are inspected and evaluated to determine the problem. This inspection report shall be evaluated by the quality assurance team to determine whether corrective and preventive actions should be implemented.

 5.2.2 self-check feedback

 • Order Check for Spare Parts: Spare parts orders from sales supervisors who are aware of trends that may indicate unusually bad rates. These trends are reported to the quality assurance team for further investigation and appropriate follow-up for corrective and preventive actions.

 • Clinical Evaluation: Results of clinical evaluations or studies undertaken by us or other entities should be scrutinized to determine whether corrective and preventive actions can be warranted to improve the product or address its weaknesses; This review should be performed by the design technology and quality assurance team. • Comments and Articles in Trade and Professional Publications: The Marketing Department is responsible for monitoring trade and professional publications, trade sample markets, and other media and venues for opinions and comments regarding our products. Feedback that may be relevant to product design or quality should be communicated to the design technology and quality assurance team for further evaluation and appropriate follow-up for corrective and preventive actions.

5.2.3 Post-market surveillance procedures

 5.2.3.1 Feedback system handling and corrective/preventive actions

 1) When a sales representative receives a complaint or feedback from a customer through fax, phone, or e-mail, the customer or self-inspection feedback is recorded and maintained in the receipt book, and the feedback log (APF806-2) and processing report (APF806-1) After arranging the contents included in the , notify the quality assurance team.

 2) The Quality Assurance Officer completes corrective actions with the relevant team upon receipt of customer and self-check feedback.

 3) When a customer complaint is received from the quality assurance team, the relevant team conducts an investigation into the cause. If necessary, the relevant team notifies the sales team of the feedback and the feedback is provided to the customer.

 4) The relevant team performs corrective actions to eliminate the cause upon completion of investigation and feedback on customer complaints.

 5) Corrective and preventive actions regarding customer feedback and self-check feedback shall be accomplished in accordance with the Corrective and Preventive Action Regulations (AQP803).

 6) If the cause of corrective and preventive action relates to the supplier, a copy of the Feedback Receipt (APF806-2) and the Processing Report (APF806-1) shall be delivered to the supplier and requested to take corrective and preventive action.

7) The person in charge of Q.A manages the corrective action to be completed within 7 days and notifies the sales team of the result of the corrective action after the inspection.

5.2.3.2 Product Recall and Advisory Notice

 1) General principles

 • Product recall refers to the withdrawal of shipped products from the site in violation of the relevant regulations, does not include market withdrawal or inventory recall, and includes return of medical devices to the supplier, change, exchange, or disposal by the supplier at the installation site. A recall is necessary when it is determined that there is a risk of serious deterioration in health or death.

 • An advisory notice is issued to provide information and recommendations on what action should be taken when using, changing, disposing or returning a medical device.

 • No market withdrawals or take-back actions are determined by this procedure, and these activities relate to the withdrawal of products from distribution that do not violate current regulations, but general inventory rotations or replacement of obsolete products with improvements, and not shipped to the market. It is the result of product recalls that are not or are not directly managed under the premises of the company.

 2) Recall liability

 (1) The Recall Committee is responsible for implementing the recall and coordinating related activities and includes the CEO, Quality Assurance Officer and Production Manager. And in case of emergency, if there is no time to convene the entire committee, the CEO or quality assurance officer is authorized to carry out the recall alone.

 (2) Possible recall situations are immediately reported to the quality assurance manager, who analyzes the product according to specifications and regulatory requirements, determines the scope of the problem, and reports the results to the CEO. If substantiated, the CEO will convene a meeting of the recall committee.

 (3) Manufacturing and sales teams are responsible for organizing and carrying out all recall activities, including determining the location of all suspicious LOTs internally and externally.

 3) Recall

 (1) The Recall Committee determines whether a recall is necessary and, if applicable,

determines:

 • Scope and nature of health hazards, recall grade.

 • Proposed Degree of Recall

 • Type of notice of consignee (letter, fax or telephone)

 • the contents of the notice to consignee

 • How to verify the effectiveness of a recall

 (2) When higher data is available, the competent authority should be contacted with a proposed recall plan.

 4) Reception of recalled products

 (1) The quality assurance team will designate and prepare an isolation area for receipt and storage of recalled products.

 (2) Recall products are recorded including the quantity returned, the LOT number of the return, and the source. These records are used to verify that all questionable products are located and returned, are reviewed regularly, and are used to generate the necessary reports.

 (3) At the final stage, a decision is made regarding the disposal of the recalled product (refer to the nonconforming product management regulations).

 5) Issuance of a Notice of Recommendation

 (1) The Recall Committee determines the need for issuing a notification of recommendation. The process for determination is similar to that applied to recall, and all recommendation notices are sent by certified mail or other traceable means.

6. Records and Retention

Division

Document and record name

Doc. No

Storage

 period

Management

team

1

Incident Report

APF808-1

5 years

Quality team

2

Field Safety Corrective

 Action Report

APF808-2

5 years

Quality team

3

Periodic Summary Report

APF808-3

5 years

Quality team

4

Trend Report

APF808-4

5 years

Quality team

7. Related standards

7.1 Corrective and preventive action procedures (AQP803)

7.2 Customer complaint handling procedure (AQP806)

7.3 Records management procedures (AQP404)
