queueId: ingest-1781569954373-3l4
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/01_DHF/05_HnX-P1, HnX-PB/05_설계개발 검증 및 유효성 확인/08_Cybersecurity/260303 사용목적 수정(CE 반영)/1. A-CDR-HNX_Cybersecurity Development Report (Rev.4 03032026).pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/7527c0024595/1. A-CDR-HNX_Cybersecurity Development Report (Rev.4 03032026)__7527c0024595_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 01ac6394f58e
productSignal: HnX
authoritySignal: CE/MDR
pilotRank: 458

SOURCE_TEXT
Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 1 / 2
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Cybersecurity Development Report
Product name: Portable X-ray System
Model name: HnX-P1, HnX-PB
Name Position Date Signature
Prepared by Han, Jimin R&D team March 03,
2026
Reviewed by Hur, Namkyu
Quality
Management
Representative
March 03,
2026
Approved by Jeon, Jeu R&D manager March 03,
2026

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 2 / 3
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Revision History
Revision No. Rev. Date Revision Description
0 December 05,
2024 Initial
1 June 05, 2025 Revision due to addition of detailed procedures for '12. Update
Management'
2 June 20, 2025 Add variant model (HnX-PB) & Software version change due to
bug debugging
3 December 10,
2025 Revision according to the intended purpose
4 March 03, 2026 Revision according to the intended purpose

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 3 / 4
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Contents
1. Overview ····················································································································· 4
2. Terms and Definitions······································································································· 5
3. General Product Description ······························································································· 8
4. Cybersecurity Development Plan ·························································································· 9
5. Responsibilities and Roles································································································ 11
6. Medical Device Architecture ····························································································· 12
7. Identification of Vulnerabilities ·························································································· 13
8. Identified Risks by Vulnerability category ············································································· 15
9. Verification Activities ····································································································· 19
10. Production and Post-production Activities ············································································ 19
11. Interoperability functionality ··························································································· 20
12. Update Management ····································································································· 21
14. Security Incident Response Activities ················································································· 24

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 4 / 5
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
1. Overview
1.1 Scope
The Cybersecurity Development Report for the HnX-P1 and HnX-PB documents all the activities
and procedures taken to ensure the cybersecurity of this specific device, in accordance with the
IEC 81001-5-1 standard. This report includes detailed records of architecture analysis, threat
modeling, vulnerability analysis, identification of security requirements, risk assessment, and
mitigation. Additionally, it covers the security frameworks and protocols adhered to during the
development of the HnX-P1and HnX-PB as well as the security features integrated into its software
and hardware components. By thoroughly documenting these aspects, the report provides a
comprehensive overview of the cybersecurity measures implemented throughout the development
lifecycle of the HnX-P1and HnX-PB.
The variant model HnX-PB has only changed the exterior design compared to the main model
HnX-P1, and the interface, exterior material, internal structure, PCB, software, etc. are all the
same.Therefore, no additional cybersecurity risk management is performed due to the addition of
the variant model (HnX-PB).
This document applies to all software under development or in progress, or which was completed,
but not to the following cases:
① Research activities
② Initial technical feasibility assessment activities
③ Activities to support prototypes that are not intended to be provided to customers
1.2 Purpose
The purpose of the Cybersecurity Development Report for HnX-P1 and HnX-PB are to
demonstrate compliance with the IEC 81001-5-1 standard, ensuring that this specific device meets
all cybersecurity requirements. This report aims to confirm that the HnX-P1 and HnX-PB are
equipped with appropriate protective measures against cyber threats, thus safeguarding patient
safety and maintaining data integrity. Furthermore, the report provides precise and reliable
cybersecurity information to regulatory bodies and other stakeholders, facilitating the approval and
certification process. By presenting detailed documentation of the cybersecurity practices followed
during the development of the HnX-P1 and HnX-PB, the report also aims to enhance the device's
credibility and marketability, ensuring that it meets the high standards required for safe and secure
operation in the healthcare environment.
standards required for safe and secure operation in the healthcare environment.
The target audience of this document is as follows:
① Software Development Team Staff
② Software Testing Team Staff

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 5 / 6
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
③ Project Manager
④ Quality Assurance Manager
⑤ Product Manager
⑥ Cybersecurity Manager
2. Terms and Definitions
2.1 Accompanying documentation
documentation intended to be used for a health software or a health IT system or an accessory,
containing information for the responsible organization or operator.
2.2 Architecture
fundamental concepts or properties of a system in its environment, embodied in its elements,
relationships, and in the principles of its design and evolution.
2.3 Asset
physical or digital entity that has value to an individual, an organization or a government
a) data and information;
b) health software and software needed for its operation;
c) hardware components such as computers, mobile devices, servers, databases, and networks;
d) services, including security, software development, IT operations and externally provided services
such as data centers, internet and software-as-a-service and cloud solutions;
e) people, and their qualifications, skills and experience;
f) technical procedures and documentation to manage and support the health IT infrastructure;
g) health IT systems that are configured and implemented to address organizational objectives by
leveraging the assets; and
h) intangibles, such as reputation and image.
2.4 Attack
attempt to destroy, expose, alter, disable, steal or gain unauthorized access to or make unauthorized use
of an asset
2.5 Attack surface
physical and functional interfaces of a system that can be accessed and, therefore, potentially
exploited by an attacker
2.6 Authentication
verification of the claimed identity of an entity
2.7 Authenticity
property that an entity is what it claims to be through authentication of origin and verification of
integrity
2.8 Availability
property of being accessible and usable on demand by an authorized entity

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 6 / 7
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
2.9 Confidentiality
property that information is not made available or disclosed to unauthorized individuals, entities,
or processes
2.10 Essential function
function or capability that is required to maintain basic safety, essential performance, a minimum
of clinical functionality as specified by the manufacturer, and operational availability for the
medical device. essential functions include, but are not limited to, the safety instrumented
function (basic safety and essential performance), the control function and the availability of
urgently needed functions and such allowing the operator to view and manipulate the medical
device safely with the most urgently needed performance (operational availability). the loss of
essential function is commonly termed loss of protection, loss of control and loss of view
respectively.
2.11 Exploit
defined way to breach the security of information systems through some vulnerability
2.12 Firecall
method established to provide emergency access to a secure medical device. in an emergency
situation, unprivileged users can gain access to key systems to correct the problem.
2.13 Health IT infrastructure
combined set of IT assets available to the individual or organization for developing, configuring,
i ntegrating, maintaining, and using it services and supporting health, patient care and other
organizational objectives
2.14 Health IT system
a combination of interacting health information elements (including health software, medical
devices, IT hardware, interfaces, data, procedures and documentation) that is configured and
implemented to support and enable an individual or organization s specific health objective
2.15 Health software
software intended to be used specifically for managing, maintaining, or improving health of
individual persons, or the delivery of care, or which has been developed for the purpose of
being incorporated into a medical device
2.16 Healthcare delivery organization(HDO)
facility or enterprise such as a clinic or hospital that provides healthcare services
2.17 Integrity
property of accuracy and completeness
2.18 Intended environment of use
conditions and setting in which users interact with the health software as specified by the
manufacture
2.19 Intended use
use for which a product, process or service is intended according to the specifications,
instructions and information provided by the manufacturer
2.20 Least privilege

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 7 / 8
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
basic principle that holds that users (humans, software processes or devices) should be assigned
the fewest privilege s consistent with their assigned duties and functions
2.21 Life cycle
series of all phases in the life of a product or system, from the initial conception to final
decommissioning and disposal
2.22 Manufacturer
organization with responsibility for design or manufacture of a product
2.23 Medical IT-network
IT network that incorporates at least one medical device
2.24 Residual risk
risk remaining after risk control measures have been implemented
2.25 Risk control
process in which decisions are made and measures implemented by which risks are reduced to,
or maintained within, specified levels
2.26 Risk management
systematic application of management policies, procedures and practices to the tasks of
analyzing, evaluating, controlling and monitoring risk
2.27 Security capability
broad category of technical, administrative or organizational controls to manage risks to
confidentiality, integrity, availability and accountability of data and systems
2.28 Software composition analysis
(electronic) analysis of binaries
2.29 Software item
identifiable part of a computer program, i.e. source code, object code, control code, control data,
or a collection of these items
2.30 Software maintenance
modification of health software after release maintenance keeps the intended use and is done
for one or more of the following reasons:
a) corrective, as fixing faults;
b) adaptive, as adapting to new hardware or software platform;
c) perfective, as implementing new requirements;
d) preventive, as making the product more maintainable.
2.31 Supported software
Software item for which the manufacturer will notify the customer regarding known risks related
to security
2.32 Threat
potential for violation of security, which exists when there is a circumstance, capability, action, or
event that could breach security and cause damage to confidentiality, integrity, availability of
information assets

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 8 / 9
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
2.33 Threat modelling
systematic exploration technique to expose any circumstance or event having the potential to
cause damage to a system in the form of destruction, disclosure, modific ation of data, or denial
of service
2.34 Trust boundary
element of a threat model that depicts a boundary where authentication is required or a change
in trust level occurs (higher to lower or vice versa)
1) trust boundary enforcement mechanisms for product users typically include authentication (for
example, challenge/response, passwords, biometrics or digital signatures) and associated
authorization (for example, access control rules).
2) trust boundary enforcement mechanisms for data typically include source
authentication (for
example, message authentication codes and digital signatures) and/or content validation. USE
ENVIRONMENT actual conditions and setting in which users interact with the health software
2.35 Vulnerability
flaw or weakness in a systems design, implementation, or operation and management that could
be exploited to violate the system s security policy
2.36 Weakness
kind of deficiency
3. General Product Description
3.1 Product description
Product name Portable X-ray System
Model name HnX-P1, HnX-PB
Manufacturer H&abyz Co., Ltd.
Manufacturer address 2-dong, 41-16 Cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-eup, Cheoin-gu, Yongin-
si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea
Intended porpose The HnX-P1 (and HnX-PB) is a battery-powered portable X-ray
system intended for generating radiographic images of human
anatomy.
3.2 Operational Environment
• Program Language: C/C++
• 32Bit Arm Cortex-M7
• MCU - STM32H7A3VG
• Off-the-shelf: None
• Software name: HnX_P1
• Version: Ver 00.12

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 9 / 10
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
4. Cybersecurity Development Plan
4.1 Resource Allocation
Effective resource allocation is critical for a successful cybersecurity implementation, which
includes establishing dedicated cybersecurity roles and assigning specific responsibilities to each
member.
4.2 Policy
Cybersecurity management policies should outline the management strategies and protocols for
maintaining cybersecurity during the development, deployment, and maintenance of the medical
device. policies should include guidelines for secure coding practices, regular security assessments,
incident response, and compliance with regulatory requirements.
4.3 Threat modeling
Threat modeling is the process of systematically identifying potential threats and vulnerabilities
that could affect a medical device. This involves creating a comprehensive model that maps out all
possible attack vectors, entry points, and weaknesses in the device's architecture. The goal is to
understand how an attacker might exploit these vulnerabilities and the potential impact on the
device's functionality, data integrity, and patient safety. Techniques such as STRIDE (Spoofing,
Tampering, Repudiation, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service, Elevation of Privilege) can be
used to categorize and analyze threats.
* STRIDE
The STRIDE algorithm primarily focuses on the security and integrity of the product itself, rather
than its interaction with the surrounding environment. This makes it especially suitable for
medical devices, where the main concern is the device's security. By concentrating on the device,
STRIDE enables a more comprehensive analysis of its inherent security risks.
4.4 Risk assessment
Once potential threats and vulnerabilities have been identified through threat modeling, the next
step is to evaluate the impact and likelihood of each threat. Risk analysis involves assessing the
severity of the impact if a threat were to be realized and the probability of its occurrence.
As a method for risk assessment, we apply CVSS (Common Vulnerability Scoring System).
1) The CVSS measurement site and used version.

: NVD – CVSS c3 Calculator / CVSS version 3.1
2) The severity levels by CVSS score
Severity level CVSS score range
None 0
Low 0.1 ~ 3.9
Medium 4.0 ~ 6.9
High 7.0 ~ 8.9
Critical 9.0 ~ 10.0
3) We could get a base score by entering the CVSS result value from that site.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 10 / 11
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
4.5 Risk Mitigation Plan
After analyzing the risks, a risk mitigation plan is developed to outline the security controls and
measures needed to reduce the identified risks to an acceptable level. This plan should detail specific
actions to be taken, such as implementing encryption, access controls, regular security updates, and
continuous monitoring. The mitigation strategies should address both the likelihood and impact of
the risks, ensuring that vulnerabilities are minimized, and the device is protected against potential
threats.
4.6 Security requirements
Deriving security requirements is a critical step in the design and development phase. This involves
identifying both functional and non-functional security requirements based on the IEC 60601-4-5.
The requirements specify the security features that the device must have, such as user authentication,
access control, and secure communication protocols.
4.7 Security design
Designing a secure system involves creating the device and its components to meet specific security
requirements. This requires developing a detailed security architecture that specifies how data will
be protected, how secure communication will be maintained, and how access to the device will be
controlled.
4.8 Secure Coding Practices
Following secure coding practices is crucial to prevent vulnerabilities in the development of
medical devices. Developers should comply with established secure coding standards, such as those
provided by CWE, to avoid common security pitfalls.
4.9 Testing and Verification
During the Testing and Verification phase, we use a thorough approach to guarantee the security of
the medical device. We employ static analysis tools to identify code vulnerabilities early in the
development process, which helps in detecting and fixing issues before they escalate. Additionally,
dynamic analysis is conducted to test the device in a runtime environment and uncover
vulnerabilities that may not be apparent through static analysis alone.
Cyber tests are divided into cyber tests when developing new products and existing ones according
to internal guidelines.
In the case of new products, cybersecurity requirements are developed and tested in the entire
process from product design input to output and transfer, and if necessary, a third-party testing
agency will conduct it.
In the case of products currently being sold, a cyber security expert monitors cyber issues in the
market quarterly, and if there are any related cyber risks, analyze them through cooperation with
other departments such as the quality team, and develop product changes if necessary.
After the change, conduct a cybersecurity test internally and update the product to the market after
the test verification.
Additionally, cybersecurity modeling as a legal requirement is tested through a third-party agency
when work is required overall.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 11 / 12
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
4.10 Deployment and operation
In the Deployment and Operation phase, the system is securely deployed with all necessary security
configurations applied to ensure a fortified environment. Continuous operational monitoring is
conducted to maintain the security status, including managing and analyzing logs for any
suspicious activity. Effective vulnerability management is critical; this involves swiftly patching
and updating the system upon the discovery of new vulnerabilities to prevent potential security
breaches. This proactive approach ensures that the medical device remains secure and resilient
against evolving threats throughout its operational lifecycle.
4.11 Maintenance
In the Maintenance phase, regular updates and patches are managed to address new security threats
promptly, ensuring the system remains secure. Continuous security monitoring is essential to detect
and respond to potential incidents swiftly, supported by a well-defined incident response plan.
Additionally, user education is crucial; providing security awareness training helps users recognize
and prevent security breaches, reinforcing the overall cybersecurity posture of the medical device
system. This comprehensive maintenance strategy ensures ongoing protection and resilience
against emerging threats.
5. Responsibilities and Roles
The following section outlines the roles and responsibilities of key personnel involved in the
medical device cybersecurity process. It defines the duties of software development team staff,
software testing team staff, project manager, project manager, quality assurance manager, product
manager and cybersecurity manager to ensure comprehensive security compliance and effective
collaboration.
Team Position Responsibilities
R&D R&D Manager 1) Approval of Cyber Security Risk Management
2) Approval to proceed with the cybersecurity test
3) Approval of cyber risk countermeasures
R&D R&D Team 1) Cyber Security Risk Management Plan and Risk
Management Proceedings
2) Supervising Cybersecurity Testing
3) Establish guidelines for cyber security risk response
4) Review Cyber Security Risk Management Documents
5) Development of security methods against cyber risks
6) Identify and analyze cyber risks
7) Proceed with cyber risk management and create documents
8) Cybersecurity Design and Development
9) Conducting a Cybersecurity Test
10) Identifying Cybersecurity Hazards
11) Cybersecurity Hazard Analysis and Reporting
12)Proceed with CAPA for Cybersecurity
R&D RA 1) Conducting and managing third-party testing related to
cybersecurity testing
2) Monitoring of the latest standards related to cyber security
and internal announcements
Quality
Control
QMR 1) Monitoring cyber hazards and reporting to regulators
2) Proceed with CAPA for Cyber Hazard
3) Identification of cyber issues related to design changes and
notification of changes

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 12 / 13
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
6. Medical Device Architecture
The architecture of this medical device comprises four main components: data assets, technical assets, trust
boundaries, and shared runtime environments. Each component plays a crucial role in ensuring the
cybersecurity and operational integrity of the device.
This architecture outlines four key perspectives for cybersecurity in medical devices, as recommended by
the FDA. Each perspective addresses different aspects of cybersecurity. Instead of creating individual Data
Flow Diagrams (DFDs) for each perspective, a unified DFD will be used with tags to represent each
perspective. This approach provides a comprehensive visualization while clearly differentiating between the
various aspects of cybersecurity.
6.1 Data-Flow Diagram
A Data-Flow Diagram (DFD) in medical device cybersecurity is a graphical representation that
maps out the flow of data within a medical system. It highlights how data moves between devices,
systems, and users, identifying points where data is input, processed, stored, and output. By
visualizing these flows, DFDs help identify potential vulnerabilities in data handling, transmission,
and storage. (Refer to Medical device Threat modeling document No. A-CTMR-HNX)
Asset:
Assets was identified for data and functions, external ports, communications, and firmware and
open source of SBOM. The LCD of the product is a non-touch display, so user identification and
authentication were not applied, and physical control measures were implemented through a
limited environment and limited users.
• A1: Configuration - Receive kV, mAs, APR setting value information.
• A2: Calibration - kV, mAs, filament current (pre-heat) compensation value settings.
• A3: Data acquisition - Digital & analog data collection.
• A4: APR - Saving kV and mAs in 10 channels

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 13 / 14
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
• A5: X-ray control - Control power on/off for X-ray output, error status output on/off.
• A6: Battery charging - Battery charge current/voltage regulation and monitoring.
• A7: Battery monitoring - Battery charging status monitoring
• A8: Error checking - Checking for occurrence of low voltage, overvoltage, low current,
overcurrent, and overheating
• A9: Bluetooth - For setting up medical devices and receiving x-ray images via Bluetooth
communication
• A10: Display - Setting value setting status, X-ray image display.
• A11: SID - Distance measurement.
• A12: Hardware Interfaces - Physical ports, including USB type C(For power charging and
receiving firmware update data.) and RJ-11(For connecting a hand switch).
• A13: Open source 1 – STMicroelectronics Open-Source Bundle
• A14: Open source 2 - KISA Crypto Module
7. Identification of Vulnerabilities
7.1 Vulnerability monitoring and scanning
It is crucial to monitor and scan for vulnerabilities to ensure the cybersecurity of medical devices.
The process of identifying and addressing vulnerabilities depends on whether the technical asset is
primarily software or hardware. Utilizing the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) framework
can systematically help in identifying and mitigating vulnerabilities in both software and hardware
components.
7.1.1 Cybersecurity Requirements (IEC 60601-4-5)
The requirements outlined in IEC 60601-4-5 emphasize the importance of device integrity,
patient safety, and the protection of sensitive data throughout the device's lifecycle. These
requirements have been thoroughly analyzed and organized according to the IEC 60601-4-5
standard, which offers guidance on safety-related technical security specifications for medical
electrical equipment. This structured approach ensures that the devices comply with regulatory
expectations and meet international standards.
7.1.2 Software components
Vulnerability assessment for software components can be effectively performed using Static
Application Security Testing (SAST). SAST involves analyzing the software's source code,
bytecode, or binary code to identify potential security weaknesses without executing the code.
This method is aligned with the CWE framework, which categorizes common software
vulnerabilities such as buffer overflows (CWE-119), SQL injection (CWE-89), and cross-site
scripting (CWE-79). Integrating CWE identifiers into SAST tools helps systematically detect
and address these vulnerabilities throughout the cybersecurity development lifecycle.
7.1.3 Hardware Components
In order to assess hardware components for vulnerabilities, a collaborative effort between
developers and cybersecurity experts is necessary. This may involve working with accredited
testing laboratories. Identifying hardware vulnerabilities often requires detailed discussions and
evaluations, which can include physical penetration testing and firmware analysis. While the

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 14 / 15
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) primarily focuses on software, it also includes
categories for hardware vulnerabilities, such as those related to physical tampering. By using
CWE identifiers, developers and testers can ensure comprehensive coverage of potential
hardware weaknesses.
7.1.4 SBOM (Software Bill of Materials)
Managing an SBOM (Software Bill of Materials) for medical device cybersecurity involves
creating a detailed inventory of all software components, continuously monitoring for
vulnerabilities. Key actions include regular updates and maintenance of the SBOM,
conducting risk assessments, and integrating it into incident response plans.
When End of Support (EOS) or End of Life (EOL) information for software components in
the SBOM is not available, it's important to take proactive measures to ensure ongoing
cybersecurity. The following steps outline a strategy for effectively managing such
components:
1) Regular Vulnerability Analysis – Manual scanning and reviews
2) Risk Mitigation - Patching and Updates
3) Documentation and Justification - Risk Assessment, Justification for Use
7.2 Continuous Monitoring
To ensure the cybersecurity of medical devices, manufacturers should develop, document, and
maintain secure health software designs by implementing best practices. Continuous monitoring is
essential in this approach and includes regular vulnerability scans, static application security testing
analysis, and internal reviews to identify and address security risks.
Analysis tools, manufacturers can proactively mitigate potential vulnerabilities. Any issues
identified are promptly managed through updates and patches. Additionally, integrating threat
intelligence helps the device remain resilient against emerging threats. Comprehensive
documentation of all activities and findings supports regulatory compliance, thereby safeguarding
both patient safety and data integrity
7.3 Evaluating Vulnerabilities
Our method of evaluating vulnerabilities involves analyzing technical assets using the CVSS 3.1
method, while excluding out-of-scope items. This systematic process assesses the severity and
potential impact of security flaws in our software and hardware systems. By using CVSS 3.1, we
can measure risk levels through a detailed evaluation of exploitability and impacts on confidentiality,
integrity, and availability. This method ensures that we accurately identify and prioritize
vulnerabilities for remediation, ultimately enhancing our security posture. Specially for medical
devices, this approach aligns with regulatory standards, ensuring patient safety and compliance.
However, as this evaluation is for medical devices, neither Temporal scores nor environmental
scores are not considered.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 15 / 16
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
8. Identified Risks by Vulnerability category
Managing cybersecurity risks for HnX-P1 and HnX-PB starts with reviewing the completed or
updated risk management processes at every design phase. In the end, a Cybersecurity Risk
Management document will be created to show the final review of all risk management documents,
risk acceptability, and residual risk. This process is crucial for systematically analyzing and
handling cybersecurity threats related to the product.
8.1 Risk Identification
Cybersecurity risks for HnX-P1 and HnX-PB will be identified, analyzed, and evaluated according
to the objectives of the risk management process and the ranking system for security risk analysis.
This will be done with reference to ISO 14971:2019, TR 24971:2020, AAMI TIR 57 standards,
and the latest international guidelines, including those from the FDA. This ensures a comprehensive
and systematic approach to managing and mitigating cybersecurity threats, aligning with global
best practices and standards.
8.1.1 Identification of Assets
An asset is anything of value for the manufacturer or the end-user. Assets can include hardware,
software, data, and other tangible or intangible items. For HnX-P1 and HnX-PB, identifying
assets is crucial for comprehensive cybersecurity risk management. Assets are categorized and
analyzed as follows:
1) Data Assets
2) Technical Assets
3) Trust Boundaries
4) Shared Runtime
8.1.2 Identification of Threats
For medical device cybersecurity, threats are identified by analyzing potential vulnerabilities
in hardware, software, data, and network communications. This includes assessing risks such
as unauthorized access, data breaches, malware, and system tampering.
8.1.3 Identification of Vulnerabilities
For medical device cybersecurity, vulnerabilities in technical assets are identified using the
CVSS methodology. This involves assessing weaknesses in hardware, software, and network
components that could be exploited.
8.1.4 STRIDE Classification of identified risks
During the threat modeling process for medical device cybersecurity, potential risks were
identified. These risks are classified according to STRIDE categories as follows: Spoofing,
Tampering, Repudiation, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service, Elevation of Privilege.
Identifying these risks plays a crucial role in ensuring the safety and data protection of medical
devices.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 16 / 17
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
8.2 Risk Identification
In medical device cybersecurity, risk estimation involves evaluating the impact and likelihood of
identified threats and vulnerabilities. As a method for risk assessment, we apply CVSS (Common
Vulnerability Scoring System).
8.2.1 CVSS Score
4) The CVSS measurement site and used version.
: NVD – CVSS c3 Calculator / CVSS version 3.1
5) The severity levels by CVSS score
Severity level CVSS score range
None 0
Low 0.1 ~ 3.9
Medium 4.0 ~ 6.9
High 7.0 ~ 8.9
Critical 9.0 ~ 10.0
6) We could get a base score by entering the CVSS result value from that site.
8.2.2 Impact
This refers to the potential consequences of a threat exploiting a vulnerability, taking into
account patient safety, data integrity, and operational continuity.
Very High (VH) Critical to system safety and possible legal and regulatory violations
High (H) Major device function failure, possible direct risk to patient safety
Medium (M) Possible to degrade system performance or impact data integrity
Low (L) Possible to cause partial function failure or some inconvenience to user
experience
Very Low (VL) Limitless to system operation
8.2.3 Likelihood
This is the probability of the threat occurring, considering the existing security controls and the
threat landscape.
Frequent (F) Exploitation is very easy and likely to occur frequently (e.g. public vulnerability)
Very Likely (VL) Exploitation is possible and likely to be exploited by malicious attackers
Likely (L) Exploitation is possible under certain conditions, but technically difficult
Unlikely (U) Exploitation is difficult and requires advanced technical knowledge
Very Unlikely
(VU)
Exploitation is practically impossible (e.g. hardware access required)
8.3 Risk Evaluation
In medical device cybersecurity, risk evaluation follows the NIST 800-30 guideline and ISO
14971:2019 standard. As a method for risk assessment, we apply CVSS (Common Vulnerability
Scoring System). This is done by multiplying the impact and likelihood to classify risk levels. The
levels include, critical, high, medium, low, and very low, and they determine the acceptability of
the risk. Risks at critical, High and Medium levels are deemed unacceptable and require immediate
mitigation. On the other hand, Low, Very Low are acceptable with regular monitoring. This method
ensures that every risk is meticulously assessed and managed, leaving no room for cyber threats to
cause harm.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 17 / 18
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
8.3.1 Risk Levels
In medical device cybersecurity, risk evaluation is conducted by assessing the impact and
likelihood of identified threats. The process involves calculating the risk level and classifying
it into predefined categories.
- Assessment scale – Level of risk
Critical (C) Extremely hazardous, requiring immediate security action. Potential direct threat
to patient safety.
High (H) High risk, requiring rapid security action. System performance degradation, high
potential for data leakage.
Medium (M) Medium risk, requiring long-term security enhancements but may not be urgent.
Low (L) Low risk, not operationally impactful but may require additional improvements.
Very Low (VL) Negligible low risk. Not likely to cause problems in normal operating
environments.
- Risk matrix – Level of risk
Likelihood (Threat Event
Occurs and Results in
Adverse Impact)
Level of Impact
Very Low Low Medium High Very High
Frequent Very low Low Medium High Critical
Very likely Very low Low Medium High High
Likely Very low Low Low Medium Medium
Unlikely Very low Very low Low Low Low
Very unlikely Very low Very low Very low Very low Very low
8.3.2 Risk Acceptance Criteria
Risk Acceptance Criteria help in making informed decisions about which risks can be accepted
and which need to be mitigated. By systematically combining the likelihood and impact, it
provides a clear and consistent method for evaluating risk acceptability, ensuring that high-risk
scenarios are prioritized for action, while lower risks are managed appropriately within
acceptable limits.
- Assessment scale – Acceptable/Unacceptable
Qualitative
Values
Semi-Quantitative
Values
Description
Critical
21 - 25 Unacceptable; Critical risk means that a threat event could be
expected to have multiple severe or catastrophic adverse
effects
High 16 - 20 Unacceptable; High risk means that a threat event could be
expected to have a severe or catastrophic adverse effect
Medium 11 – 15 Unacceptable; Medium risk means that a threat event could be
expected to have a serious adverse effect
Low 6 – 10 Acceptable; Low risk means that a threat event could be
expected to have a limited adverse effect
Very Low 1 - 5 Acceptable; Very low risk means that a threat event could be
expected to have a negligible adverse effect

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 18 / 19
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
- Risk matrix – Acceptable/Unacceptable
Likelihood
(Threat Event
Occurs and
Results in
Adverse
Impact)
Level of Impact
Very Low Low Medium High Very High
Frequent Acceptable Acceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable
Very likely Acceptable Acceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable
Likely Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable
Unlikely Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable
Very unlikely Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable
8.4 Risk Control
Risk control in medical device cybersecurity involves implementing strategies to reduce identified
risks. This can be achieved by taking preventative action to lower the likelihood of a threat
occurring, or by taking contingency action to minimize the impact if a threat does occur. The key
components of risk control include:
1) Access Control: Implement strong authentication and authorization mechanisms
2) Network Security: Use firewalls, intrusion detection/prevention systems (IDS/IPS), and secure
communication protocols (e.g., TLS, HTTPS)
3) Data Encryption: Encrypt sensitive data to protect its confidentiality and integrity
4) Regular Updates and Patching: Ensure timely updates and patches to address known
vulnerabilities
5) Redundancy: Design systems with redundancy
6) Security Guidelines: Step-by-step instructions on how to securely operate the device
7) Warning Labels: Include labels on how to protect the device from common cybersecurity threats
8.5 Residual Risk Assessment After Risk Control
In medical device cybersecurity, residual risk assessment involves evaluating the remaining risks
after implementing risk controls. This process, based on NIST 800-30 and ISO 14971, includes
reassessing the likelihood and impact of identified threats to ensure they meet acceptable levels,
and it ensures patient safety and data integrity. Continuous risk management and compliance with
regulatory standards are ensured through this process
8.6 Risk Arising from Risk Control Measure
In medical device cybersecurity, implementing risk control measures may introduce new risks.
According to NIST 800-30 and ISO 14971, these risks may include potential system
incompatibilities, performance degradation, or unforeseen vulnerabilities. It is essential to
continuously monitor and reassess these emerging risks for effective management.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 19 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
8.7 Risk/Benefit analysis
In the medical device cybersecurity, a risk/benefit analysis evaluates the potential risks associated
with security measures in comparison to the advantages of safeguarding patient data and
maintaining device integrity. Drawing from NIST 800-30 and ISO 14971, this analysis guarantees
that cybersecurity controls do not bring about undue risks and that the overall benefits to patient
safety and data security warrant the implementation of these measures.
9. Verification Activities
It's crucial to carry out verification activities to ensure that the cybersecurity measures for medical
devices are strong and reliable. These activities involve various tests aimed at identifying
vulnerabilities and confirming that security controls comply with regulatory standards such as
NIST 800-30 and ISO 14971.
- Verification activities (Example)
Test Description
Static Application
Security Testing (SAST)
SAST involves analyzing the source code of the software to
identify security vulnerabilities without executing the program.
Requirement testing Requirement testing ensures that the implemented security
controls and features meet the IEC 60601-4-5 standard.
Vulnerability testing Vulnerability testing process involves scanning the system and
its components for known vulnerabilities
Fuzzing testing Fuzzing involves inputting random or unexpected data into the
software to uncover security vulnerabilities and bugs.
Penetration testing Penetration testing simulates real-world cyberattacks to
evaluate the security of the medical device.
10. Production and Post-production Activities
The Risk Management File for cybersecurity of medical devices will be systematically reviewed
and updated, especially in the following situations:
1) Product Modification: Any changes made to the product, such as updates or new features, may
introduce new vulnerabilities or modify existing ones. It's important to thoroughly review these
changes to assess the cybersecurity risks involved.
2) Context Changes: Any changes in the operating environment, regulatory requirements, or
advancements in cybersecurity threats may require a reevaluation of risks.
3) Timeline to develop and release patches, H&abyz will review cybersecurity risks once every
two years and update them if they believe there is a threat to cybersecurity.
4) When updates occur due to new risks, legal requirements, and product changes, they can be
reflected in the field as quickly as possible, taking into account their importance and severity.
5) When a cyber issue arises in the market, the CS Team checks the situation on the spot, prepares
a customer complaint report, and delivers the contents to the research institute. In Korea, the CS-
Team communicates directly with customers on the spot or by phone, and in overseas,
communicates with customers through e-mail.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 20 / 21
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
6) CISA monitoring (Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency)
H&abyz monitors the CISA catalog by cybersecurity officers within the quarterly one-time lab to
identify cyber risks associated with H&abyz's harm. After identifying cyber risks, the research
institute analyzes them to come up with measures to prevent harm. If necessary, we prepare for
software cyberattacks through design changes.
7) CVD process (Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure)
H&abyz plans to actively participate in the CVD process to monitor the Cybersecurity
Vulnerability report issued by CISA or CERT and apply the patch, update, and other mitigation
related to the Vulnerability if necessary.
Confirmed vulnerabilities must result in a direct report into government agencies such as the U.S.
DHS (ICS-CERT program) and then communication through the press to the public. The FDA’s
Pre and Postmarket Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices guidance documents,
published in October 2023, provide direction on key principals that are globally applicable in
practice and in cooperation with other governmental entities and processes.
8) Patching capability
H&abyz will perform a quarterly cybersecurity patch. If no cyber incidents occur, we will continue
to monitor and prepare for the next quarter’s patch.
- Production and Post-production Activities
Category Descriptions
Issue Resolution
Prior to Release
Address all issues found during system testing through a
structured problem resolution process (Software development
documents)
Release Documentation
IFU include:
1) Instructions for securely operating the software in medical
environment, assisting
end users in maintaining cybersecurity during use.
2) Clear and sufficient information about any residual risks that
could not be fully mitigated is provided to end users, ensuring
they are informed and can take appropriate precautions.
File Integrity Verifies the integrity of scripts, executables, and security
related files used with medical device.
Private Key Control Procedural and technical controls to protect code
signing private keys from unauthorized access or modification.
Security Issue Assessment
and Resolution
Ensure no software release until all security issues are
addressed, tracked, and confirmed resolved.
Completion of Activities Verify and document the completion of all applicable security
processes before release.
Secure Disposal
Guidelines
IFU with instructions for the secure disposal of medical device.
11. Interoperability functionality
Medical devices need to consider cybersecurity due to their ability to interact with other medical
or IT devices, as well as functions related to healthcare infrastructure such as networks, Electronic
Medical Records (EMR), and medical imaging systems. It is crucial to implement strong
cybersecurity measures in these interfaces to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the medical

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 21 / 22
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
device system. To verify interoperability functionality, we have added the MDS2 (Manufacturer
Disclosure Statement for Medical Device Security) checklist.
The MDS2 provides a standardized framework for manufacturers to disclose the security features
of their devices. It helps identify and address potential cybersecurity risks associated with
interoperability by detailing how devices handle data security, user authentication, and other
security controls. This facilitates thorough evaluation and management of cybersecurity in medical
device systems
12. Update Management
It's crucial to manage updates for medical devices as part of cybersecurity to promptly address
vulnerabilities and safeguard patient safety and device integrity. Following guidelines from the
FDA and NIST, update management includes identifying, acquiring, testing, and deploying
software updates to fix vulnerabilities or enhance functionality.
The HnX-P1 and HnX-PB are designed to anticipate the possibility that software and firmware
patches and updates will be required to address cybersecurity vulnerabilities.
* Additional storage and resources for updates
- Flash memory: All Flash Memory is available to applications after patching and updating
with the built-in Bootloader in the System Boot Memory area
- RAM: All RAM is available to applications after patching and updating by MCU reset
- Communication (UART: 1 channel): UART is available to applications after patching and
updating by MCU reset
During firmware updates, the bootloader temporarily utilizes less than 5 KB of RAM.
No dedicated or persistent memory space is required for update storage, as all memory
resources are fully released and returned to the application after the update and system reset.
If communication is interrupted or a failure occurs during the update, it may cause damage to the
product's hardware and update files. Therefore, the product's software and firmware updates cannot
be performed directly by users in the field, and must be performed by authorized service personnel
or by returning the product to the manufacturer or service center.
* Check the update progress and take action when it is interrupted
- Information about the update process is available in the STM32CubeProgrammer message
window
- Updates can be made using STM32CubeProgrammer and ST-Link when the update is
interrupted
Cybersecurity-related patches and updates are performed in the following situations:
- Regular: N/A (No need for regular updates as it is an offline-only product)
- Immediate: When new cybersecurity requirements arise or cybersecurity threats occur.
Updates are made when software is changed, such as when product specifications are
changed.
The tools used for updates and the maintenance methods for those tools are as follows.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 22 / 23

Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
* Update tool
- Software: STM32CubeProgrammer
· Provided by STMicroelectronics, the MCU manufacturer. It can be downloaded from the
STMicroelectronics homepage and is maintained with the latest version by monitoring the
homepage.
- Hardware: ST-Link
· Developed and distributed by STMicroelectronics, the MCU manufacturer. Purchase and
apply the latest version after monitoring.
After the cybersecurity update, the validation according to the cybersecurity risk management
process of the IEC 81001-5-1 standard, and the update is verified using the following methods.
- Verification of the integrity of the latest software by verifying the hash using HxD
- Verification of the integrity of the update by checking the firmware version displayed on the
LCD screen when rebooting after the update
The applicable open source for the product is software provided by STMicroelectronics and
KISA_SHA256, and the end date of support for the open source has not been defined. (Refer to
SBOM(Doc No. A-SBOM-HNX)) We also monitor the site to maintain the latest version. If KISA's
policy changes and the open source cannot be used, we will replace it with the Hash processor built
into the MCU.
12.1 Update Target
Update targets for medical device cybersecurity include software components, firmware, security
patches, and configuration files to ensure the device remains secure and functional.
1) Firmware: Microcontroller firmware, device drivers, and other low-level system software.
2) Security Patches: Specific updates aimed at addressing known vulnerabilities.
3) Configuration Files: Updates to security settings and configurations.
12.2 Update process
The update can only be done by a CS Team representative on the H&abyz with permissions and
can be executed by changing the configuration file during installation.
(* Updates cannot be performed directly in the field; you must return the product to the
manufacturer or service center to perform the update.)
12.2.1 Preparation
• Obtain security patches from trusted sources
- You should download patches required for vulnerability fixes or feature improvements
from the manufacturer or an authorized software vendor. This ensures the integrity of the
patch itself and effectively eliminates known security risks.
• Patch file encryption
- Encrypt the patch file using a strong encryption algorithm such as AES-128 to prevent the

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 23 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
contents of the patch file from being exposed during transmission.
• Apply digital signature
- Add a digital signature to the patch file using the manufacturer's private key so that the
device can "verify that the patch has not been tampered with" before installation.
12.2.2 Update Deployment
• Accessing the update interface
- Run an update tool such as STM32CubeProgrammer on a PC connected to the HnX-P1
product. It is provided in GUI or CLI form, and select the update mode according to the
instructions in the provided manual.
• Digital signature verification
- Just before installing the patch, the device verifies the digital signature of the transmitted
patch file to verify “whether there is a valid manufacturer signature” and “whether there
was any tampering during transmission.”
• Patch installation
- If the signature is valid, the patch file is written to the flash memory area. At this time, the
bootloader is run to replace the firmware by overwriting it.
• Integrity verification
- Once the installation is complete, AES-128 decryption is performed to check whether the
patch file is installed normally, and file integrity is guaranteed through checksum (hash)
comparison.
• Verification of version after reboot
- After the update is complete, reboot the device, and check the firmware version
information displayed on the LCD screen to verify once again “whether it is the expected
new version.”
• How to recover if an abnormality occurs
- If a communication failure or failure occurs during the update, use
STM32CubeProgrammer and ST-Link to enter “Forced Recovery Mode” and try to roll
back to the previous version or reinstall.
12.2.3 Assessment of Unresolved Anomalies
H&abyz never had an Unresolved Animals issue. However, if the issue arises, it will
be resolved by analyzing and documenting it according to the quality system procedure.
13. Patching capability
The device does not connect to the internet or external servers, and therefore does not support
remote or automatic updates.
A regular patching schedule has not been established. Instead, firmware updates are provided as
needed in response to identified issues or vulnerabilities.
Firmware patches are applied manually via a physical connection (e.g., USB Type-C port), and the
update file is verified for integrity prior to installation.
All patches are managed under the company’s internal software maintenance and change control
procedures, in accordance with the secure software development lifecycle (SSDLC).

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNX
Rev. No. 4
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 24 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
14. Security Incident Response Activities
The Security Incident Response Plan outlines a structured approach for handling cybersecurity
incidents related to HnX-P1 and HnX-PB. It has been developed in accordance with FDA and NIST
guidelines, ensuring effective management of security incidents to protect patient safety and
maintain device integrity. The plan incorporates the Incident Response Life Cycle, which includes
preparation, detection and analysis, containment, eradication and recovery, and post-incident
activities, to systematically address and mitigate cybersecurity threats.
13.1 Preparation
In order to effectively manage cybersecurity incidents, it is essential to continuously monitor.
Incident detection involves automated alerts, user reports, and proactive monitoring. An initial
analysis is conducted to assess the nature, scope, and impact of the incident, which includes data
collection and analysis. Incidents are then categorized based on severity and their impact on device
functionality and patient safety. Comprehensive documentation of all findings, including the
incident timeline, initial observations, and analysis results, is also undertaken.
13.2 Detection and Analysis
Implement continuous monitoring using IDS/IPS, SIEM systems, and other security tools to detect
anomalies and potential incidents. Identify incidents through automated alerts, user reports, and
proactive monitoring. Conduct an initial analysis to determine the nature, scope, and impact of the
incident by collecting and analyzing logs, alerts, and other relevant data. Classify the incident based
on its severity and impact on device functionality and patient safety. Document all findings,
including the incident timeline, initial observations, and analysis results, to ensure comprehensive
understanding and effective response.
13.3 Containment, Eradication, and Recovery
To effectively contain an incident, take immediate actions to limit its spread and impact. This
includes isolating affected systems or devices for short-term containment. Then, develop and
execute a long-term containment strategy to fully control the incident. Eradicate the root cause by
removing malware, closing vulnerabilities, and applying patches. During the recovery phase,
restore affected systems and devices to normal operation and validate that they are fully operational
and secure through thorough testing to ensure no residual issues remain
13.4 Post-Incident Activity
Conduct a detailed root cause analysis to identify the cause of the incident and understand how it
occurred. Implement corrective actions to address the immediate issue and mitigate its impact, and
develop preventive actions to prevent similar incidents in the future, including process
improvements, enhanced monitoring, and additional training. Document all aspects of the incident
response, including findings, actions taken, and lessons learned.
