queueId: ingest-1781569954369-1o
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/01_DHF/05_HnX-P1, HnX-PB/05_설계개발 검증 및 유효성 확인/08_Cybersecurity/260303 사용목적 수정(CE 반영)/3. A-CRMR-HNX_Cybersecurity Risk Management Report(Rev.5 03032026).pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/0192102be17a/3. A-CRMR-HNX_Cybersecurity Risk Management Report(Rev.5 03032026)__0192102be17a_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 07404d10fc82
productSignal: HnX
authoritySignal: CE/MDR
pilotRank: 459

SOURCE_TEXT
Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 1 / 2
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Cybersecurity
Risk Management Report
Product name: Portable X-ray System
Model name: HnX-P1, HnX-PB
Name Position Date Signature
Prepared by Han, Jimin R&D team March 03,
2026
Reviewed by Hur, Namkyu
Quality
Management
Representative
March 03,
2026
Approved by Jeon, Jeu R&D manager March 03,
2026

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 2 / 3
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Revision History
Revision No. Rev. Date Revision Description
0 2024.12.05 Initial
1 2025.04.01 Added threat identification to the IEC 60601-4-5 cybersecurity
requirements list.
2 2025.06.05 Revision according to 6.Risk evaluation and 7.Risk control content
modification.
3 2025.06.20 Revision according to Add variant model (HnX-PB)
4 December 10,
2025 Revision according to the intended purpose
5 March 03, 2026 Revision according to the intended purpose

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 3 / 4
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Contents
1. Purpose························································································································ 4
2. Summary······················································································································ 4
3. Reference ····················································································································· 4
4. Risk management process ·································································································· 6
5. Risk analysis ················································································································· 7
6. Risk evaluation············································································································· 21
7. Risk control ················································································································ 23
8. Evaluation of overall residual risk ······················································································· 27
9. Risk management review ································································································· 27
10. Production and post-production activities ············································································ 28
11. Reference ·················································································································· 30

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 4 / 5
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
1. Purpose
The purpose of this report is making sure for sale and usage of the product to satisfy the
safe and expected result considering the intended purpose of HnX-P1 and HnX-PB as
preparation of cyber security risk management system in accordance with ISO 14971:2019 ,
TR 24971:2020. After identifying all hazards and deciding the risk based on the
result of decision in severance and occurrence possibility and judging the risk as acceptance
level, and unacceptance level, it reduces hazard with establishing risk reduction measures.
Executing this process continuously, it distinguishes all risks from risk controls, deciding
identified risk and it pursues to remove or reduce risks through the activity of continuous
risk management.
The variant model HnX-PB has only changed the exterior design compared to the main model
HnX-P1, and the interface, exterior material, internal structure, PCB, software, etc. are all the
same.Therefore, no additional cybersecurity risk management is performed due to the addition of
the variant model (HnX-PB).
2. Summary
This risk management report is prepared for the HnX-P1 in accordance with risk management
procedure and risk management plan in a risk management process,
prior to the release for commercial distribution of the HnX-P1 and HnX-PB
This risk management report ensures the following:
- the risk management plan has been appropriately implemented
- the overall residual risk is acceptable
- appropriate metho ds are in place to obtain relevant production and post production
information.
3. Reference
Standard Title
ISO 14971 Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices
IEC 60601-1 Medical electrical equipment - General requirements for basic safety and
essential performance
IEC 60601-1-2
Medical electrical equipment – Part 1-2: General requirements for basic safety
and essential performance – Collateral standard: Electromagnetic disturbances
– Requirements and tests
IEC 60601-1-3
Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-3: General requirements for basic safety
and essential performance - Collateral Standard: Radiation protection in
diagnostic X-ray equipment
IEC 60601-2-28
Medical electrical equipment - Part 2-28: Particular requirements for the basic
safety and essential performance of X-ray tube assemblies for medical
diagnosis
IEC 60601-2-54 Medical electrical equipment -- Part 2-54: Particular requirements for the basic
safety and essential performance of X ray equipment for radiography and

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 5 / 6
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
radioscopy
IEC 62304 Medical device software - Software life-cycle processes
IEC 62366-1 Medical devices - Application of usability engineering to medical devices
IEC 60601-1-6 Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-6: General requirements for basic safety
and essential performance - Collateral standard: Usability
ISO 15223-1 Medical devices—Symbols to be used with medical device labels, labeling and
information to be supplied -Part 1:General requirements
AAMI TIR 57 Principles for medical device security
NIST Special
Publication 800-30 Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments
Cybersecurity in
Medical Devices
Cybersecurity in Medical Devices: Quality System Considerations and Content
of Premarket Submissions

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 6 / 7
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
4. Risk management process
Risk management process needs to be iterative, covering each risk in turn, and returning to earlier
steps if risk control measures introduce new hazards or if new information becomes available.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 7 / 8
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
5. Risk analysis
5.1 Risk analysis process
Risk analysis is performed to identify the intended use and the characteristics related to
the safety of the medical device, and the estimation of the risk(s) for each hazardous
situation according to the risk management procedure and risk management plan.
5.1.1 General description
Product name Portable X-ray System
Model name HnX-P1, HnX-PB
Manufacturer H&abyz Co., Ltd.
Manufacturer address 2-dong, 41-16 Cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-eup, Cheoin-gu, Yongin-
si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea
Intended use The HnX-P1 (and HnX-PB) is a battery-powered portable X-ray
system intended for generating radiographic images of human
anatomy.
1) Main body Exterior(HnX-P1)
Front Side Rear
2) Main body Exterior (HnX-PB)
Front Side Rear

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 8 / 9
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
3) Components
No Component Photo Q’ty Note
1 Hand-switch 1ea -
2 AC/DC adapter 1ea
3 Power cable 1ea
4 Battery 1ea It is embedded in the
portable X-ray system.
5 Hand-strap 1ea (HnX-PB only)
4) Specification
Adapter Input Voltage 100-240VAC, 50/60Hz
Output Voltage 20VDC/ 3.25A/65W ---- USB C-type PD 용
Battery Pack
Cell 29.6V/1,470mAh(8S1P), Li-Polymer
Output Voltage 25.6~33.6VDC
Output Current 50A @ (2sec)
Control Circuit BMS
Charging Time 2hr
Output Power 720Wmax
kV & mA &
mAs
Range
kV mA mAs
50kV ~ 70kV 10mA 0.4mAs ~ 20mAs
71kV ~ 90kV 8mA 0.4mAs ~ 16mAs
mAs Range 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.8, 1.0, 1.3, 1.6, 2.0, 2.5, 3.2, 4.0, 5.0, 6.3, 8.0, 10, 13, 16,
20mAs
Exposure Time sec: 0.040 ~ 2.000sec.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 9 / 10
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
0.04, 0.05, 0.06, 0.075, 0.10, 0.125, 0.13, 0.16, 0.2, 0.25, 0.32, 0.40,0.5, 0.63, 0.8, 1.0,
1.25, 1.3, 1.6, 2.000 (20 Steps)
kV Deviation ± 5%
mA/mAs
Deviation ± 10%
Filteration
Inherent Filtration of Beam liming Device: 0.5 mm Al,
Inherent Filtration of High Voltage tank: 0.5 mm Al
Added filter 2.0mm Al
Total Filtration : 3.0mm Al
Special
Features DR Interface, Calibration, APR, Remote Function
X-Ray TUBE
OX/90
Focal Spot 0.5 mm x 0.5 mm
Target Angle 19 degree
Anode Heat Storage 10kJ
kV & mAs
Display 4inch LCD
Collimator
Type Manual, Double Slit
Min. X-ray Field ≤ 5×5cm @ 100cm SID
Max. X-ray Field ≤ 47×47cm @ 100cm SID
Timer 20/30sec
Lamp/Lux LED/over 160Lux
Dimension 293.6(L) x 256.5(W) x 151.9(H) mm
Weight Under 3.5kg
Bluetooth
(BLE)
Module BoT-nLE521
Standard Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)
Frequency Range 2,402 – 2,480 MHz
Modulation GFSK
Channels 40
Antenna Chip Antenna (Peak Gain: 3.5 dBi)
Function Thumbnail image preview transmission
5) Software information
• Program Language: C/C++
• 32Bit Arm Cortex-M7
• MCU - STM32H7A3VG
• Off-the-shelf: None
• Software name: HnX_P1, HnX_PB
(HnX_P1 and HnX_PB, the software for HnX-P1 and HnX-PB, are the same software with
different names)
• Version: Ver 00.12

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 10 / 11
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
5.1.2 Identification of the person(s) and organization who carried out the risk analysis & Scope
and date of the risk analysis.
Risk
management
phase
Risk management sub-phase Analysis date Responsible person
Risk analysis Identification of assets 2024.12.05 R&D team
R&D Developer
RA team
Test engineer (QC)
Identification of threats
Identification of
Vulnerabilities
STRIDE Classification of
identified risk
Estimation of the risks for
each threat event
5.2 Intended use and reasonably foreseeable misuse & Identification of characteristics related to
the safety
5.2.1 Intended medical indication
The device is indicated for the diagnostic imaging of the following clinical conditions:
• Traumatic and Orthopedic Conditions: Suspected bone fractures, dislocations, or joint injuries.
• Respiratory and Thoracic Conditions: Suspected pulmonary infections (e.g., pneumonia), pleural
effusion, or thoracic anomalies.
• Abdominal Conditions: Suspected bowel obstruction or other abdominal pathologies.
5.2.2 Intended PATIENT population
Item Description
Age · Adult patients.
Patient State · No specific limitations apply except for pregnant women, for whom use must
be clinically justified by a physician.
Nationality · No specific restrictions based on nationality apply.
5.2.3 Intended part of the body or type of tissue applied to or interacted with
Measuring part: human body parts such as head, Chest, spinal, abdominal, articular, hand,
foot and other internal organs
5.2.4 Intended USER PROFILE
Item Details
Education Completed a healthcare professional training
Knowledge Qualified as a radiographer
Language Language displayed on the label or user manual.
Experience Radiographer, Radiologist, medical imaging specialists
Permissible · Mild reading eyesight impairment or corrected eyesight on log MAR 0.2(6/10

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 11 / 12
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Impairments or 20/32)
· Average degree of age-related short-term memory damage
· 40% hearing loss relative to normal hearing thresholds in the 500 Hz to 2 kHz
range
5.2.5 The result of identification of characteristics that could impact on safety by ISO/TR
24971:2020, Annex A.2
Questions (ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A) A or
N/A Characteristics related to the safety
A.2.1. What is the intended use and how is the
medical device to be used? A
The HnX-P1 (and HnX-PB) is a battery-powered
portable X-ray system intended for generating
radiographic images of human anatomy.
What is the medical device’s role relative to:
diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment
or alleviation of disease,
A
• The portable X-ray System should be operated
only by or under the supervision of a properly
trained and qualified professional.
• It is designed for radiographic uses only and not
intended for fluoroscopic use or other associated
applications.
• The device does not apply to mammography and
dental radiography.
• It is prohibited for the same patient (especially
children) to receive high frequency imaging of the
device for a long period.
• Pregnant women undergoing X-ray exams may
result in fetal injury.
Clinician’s decision shall be made by weighing the
condition of patients.
• It should be used for the diagnosis purpose and is
not intended for therapy of any kind.
diagnosis, monitoring, treatment or alleviation
of or compensation for an injury,
investigation, replacement, modification or
support of anatomy or a physiological process,
or
N/A
control of conception? N/A
what are the indications for use?
(e.g. patient population, user profile, use
environment)?
A
The device is indicated for the diagnostic imaging
of the following clinical conditions:
• Traumatic and Orthopedic Conditions:
Suspected bone fractures, dislocations, or joint
injuries.
• Respiratory and Thoracic Conditions:
Suspected pulmonary infections (e.g., pneumonia),
pleural effusion, or thoracic anomalies.
• Abdominal Conditions: Suspected bowel
obstruction or other abdominal pathologies.
what are the contra-indications? A ① Pregnancy: The device is contraindicated
for use in the abdominal and pelvic regions of

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 12 / 13
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Questions (ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A) A or
N/A Characteristics related to the safety
women who are pregnant or may be pregnant. X-ray
exposure to the fetus carries a risk of severe
congenital defects and developmental disorders.
② Bariatric Patients: The device is strictly
contraindicated for any examination other than the
extremities (i.e., limb imaging) in bariatric patients
(defined as BMI 40 kg/m^2). Due to the limited X-
ray output capacity for thicker body parts,
examinations of the trunk, abdomen, and pelvis may
yield poor diagnostic quality and result in excessive
radiation dose without sufficient clinical benefit.
③ Mammography: This device is not to be
used for mammography.
does the medical device sustain or support
life? N/A The portable X-ray System is not a life supporting
device.
is special intervention necessary in the case of
failure of the medical device? N/A In case of failure, troubleshooted by the
manufacturer.
can the performance of the medical device be
impacted in the event of a security breach
(performance degradation or loss of
availability)?
A The event of a security breach may affect the
performance of the medical device.
can unauthorized access, unauthorized
activities, or loss of data affect the medical
device safety?
A
Unauthorized access, unauthorized operation, or
data loss may affect the performance of the medical
device.

A.2.2. Is the medical device intended to be
implanted? N/A Not intended to be implanted.
the location of implantation
the characteristics of the patient population
age weight, physical activity
the effect of ageing on implant performance
the expected lifetime of the implant
the reversibility of the implantation.
the implant can be modified or configured
while implanted
the access connection to perform this
modification or configuration (e.g, physical
access point or wireless connection to the
implanted medical device).
A.2.3 Is the medical device intended to be in
contact with the patient or other persons? N/A Portable X-ray System is not intended to be in
contact with the patient
the nature of the intended contact - surface
contact, invasive contact, or implantation
the period and frequency of contact.
A.2.4 What materials or components are
utilized in the medical device or are used with,
or are in contact with, the medical device?
N/A This product is not used with other materials or
components.
compatibility with relevant substances;
compatibility with tissues or body fluids;

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 13 / 14
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Questions (ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A) A or
N/A Characteristics related to the safety
whether characteristics relevant to safety are
known;
is the medical device manufactured utilizing
materials of animal origin?
A.2.5 Is energy delivered to or extracted from
the patient? A Portable X-ray System generates x-ray and transfers
to patient.
the type of energy transferred; A X-RAY
its control, quality, quantity, intensity and
duration; A
• The maximum output of X-ray generator is
720W
• The X-ray Tube output voltage of generator is
50~90Kv
• The X-ray Tube output current and mAs
(current x sec.) of generator are:
kV mA mAs
50~70 10 0.4~20
71~90 8 0.4~16
whether energy levels are higher than those
currently used for similar devices. N/A The energy levels of HnX-P1 are similar to other
products
A.2.6 Are substances delivered to or extracted
from the patient? N/A No substances delivered to and/or extracted from
the patient.
whether the substance is delivered or extracted
whether it is a single substance or range of
substance
the maximum and minimum transfer rates and
control thereof.
A.2.7 Are biological materials processed by
the medical device for subsequent re-use,
transfusion or transplantation? Factors that
should be considered include the type of
process and substance(s) processed (e.g.
autotransfusion, dialysis, blood component or
cell therapy processing).
N/A This product does not process biological materials.
A.2.8 Is the medical device supplied sterile or
intended to be sterilized by the user, or are
other microbiological controls applicable?
Factors that should be considered include
N/A This product dose not be sterilized.
whether the medical device is intended for
single use or re-use packaging
shelf-life issues
limitation on the number of re-use cycles
method of product sterilization
the impact of other sterilization methods not
intended by the manufacturer.
A.2.9 Is the medical device intended to be
routinely cleaned and disinfected by the user?
A Portable X-ray System is required to be routinely
cleaned using soft, dry cloth after using the product.
the types of cleaning
disinfecting agents to be used and any
limitations on the number of cleaning cycles.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 14 / 15
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Questions (ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A) A or
N/A Characteristics related to the safety
can the design of the medical device influence
the effectiveness of routine cleaning and
disinfection?
the effect of cleaning and disinfecting agents
on the safety or performance of the medical
device.
A.2.10 Is the medical device intended to
modify the patient environment? N/A It is not intended to modify the patient environment.
But it is medical device for radiography diagnostic.
temperature; humidity;
atmospheric gas composition; pressure; light.
A.2.11 Are measurements taken? N/A Portable X-ray System is not a medical device used
for measuring.
the variables measured and the accuracy and
the precision of the measurement result:
whether the measurement apparatus or data
can be compromised
The need for calibration and maintenance
A.2.12 Is the medical device interpretative? N/A Portable X-ray System is not a medical device used
for interpreting.
whether conclusions are presented by the
medical device from input or acquired data,
the algorithms used, and confidence limits.
Special attention should be given to
unintended applications of the data or
algorithm.
unauthorized manipulation or changes to
algorithms and data
A.2.13 Is the medical device intended for use
in conjunction with other medical devices,
medicines or other medical technologies?
N/A
Not intended for use in conjunction with other
medical devices, medicines, or other medical
technologies.
identifying any other medical devices,
medicines or other medical technologies that
can be involved
the potential problem associated with
interactions
(such as the medical device impacting the
performance of other medical devices)
whether the patient follows the instructions for
the therapy.
A.2.14 Are there unwanted outputs of energy
or substances? A This product can generate unwanted output of
energy.
Energy-related factors that should be
considered include noise and vibration, heat,
radiation (including ionizing, non-ionizing,
and ultraviolet/visible/infrared radiation),
contact temperatures, leakage currents, and
electric or magnetic fields.
A
This product can generate unwanted output of
energy by Magnetic of leakage current and
electromagnetic etc.
Also, because our product was used integrated with
x-ray generator, can generate scattered x-ray. But
the product was passed Safety and EMC test.
Substance-related factors that should be
considered include substances used in N/A

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 15 / 16
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Questions (ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A) A or
N/A Characteristics related to the safety
manufacturing, cleaning or testing having
unwanted physiological effects if they remain
in the product.
Other substance-related factors that should be
considered include discharge of chemicals,
waste products, and body fluids.
N/A
A.2.15 Is the medical device susceptible to
environmental influences? A This product is susceptible to environmental
influences.
the operational, transport and storage
environment. These include light,
temperature, humidity, vibrations, spillage,
susceptibility to variations in power and
cooling supplies, and electromagnetic
interference.
A
Operating Environment
- Temperature : 10 ℃ to 35℃
- Humidity : 30 % to 75 % RH (non-condensing)
- Air Pressure : 700 hPa to 1060 hPa
Storage and Transit Environment
- Temperature : -10 ℃ to 50℃
- Humidity : 10 % to 80% RH (non-condensing)
- Air Pressure : 500 hPa to 1060 hPa
A.2.16 Does the medical device influence the
environment? A Electro Magnetic Interference
the effects on power and cooling supplies; N/A
emission of toxic materials; N/A There is no connect with toxic chemical.
the generation of electromagnetic disturbance. A Electromagnetic waves can generate because of
product which uses electricity.
A.2.17 Does the medical device require
consumables or accessories? A
The hand switch and battery are included to product
as component
The product components are as follows.
- Hand-switch
- Battery(It is inserted inside the main body.)
- AC/DC Adapter
- Power cable
specifications for such consumables or
accessories A
Battery spec is;
- Cell : 29.6V/1,500mAh, Li-Polymer
- Output Voltage : 25.6~33.6VDC
- Output Current : 50A @ (2sec)
- Control Circuit : BMS
- Charging Time : 2hr
any restrictions placed upon users in their
selection of these. A When using battery, always use the battery provided
by H&abyz.
A.2.18 Is maintenance or calibration
necessary? A
Our product need maintenance or calibration in case
of necessity.
whether maintenance or calibration are to be
carried out by the users or by a specialist;
are special substances or equipment necessary
for proper maintenance or calibration?
traceability of the calibrator values to a higher
order reference
how to determine when maintenance or
recalibration is needed
how to verify that calibration is (still)
acceptable

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 16 / 17
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Questions (ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A) A or
N/A Characteristics related to the safety
A.2.19 Does the medical device contain
software? A
The product contains software.
whether software is intended to be installed,
verified, modified or exchanged by the
operator or user or by a specialist, and the
authenticity of a software update.
A.2.20 Does the medical device allow access
to information? A Portable X-ray System can be connected to the PC
via Bluetooth accessible Ethernet ports, USB ports, serial
ports, and removable hard drives.
A.2.21 Does the medical device store data
critical to patient care? N/A This product does not store data.
the possibility of the data being modified or
corrupted
unauthorized access to the data, and the
consequences for the patients.
A.2.22 Does the medical device have a
restricted shelf-life? N/A This product hasn’t shelf-life because of a non-
sterilized device
the medical device can deteriorate over time
the impact of storage conditions and primary
packaging
the communication of the expiry date (by
labelling or an indicator)
possibility of use after the expiry date
the disposal of expired medical devices
A.2.23 Are there any delayed or long-term use
effects? A
Damage of the label, degeneration caused by long
time use of product
ergonomic and cumulative effects.
(Examples could include pumps for saline that
corrode over time, mechanical fatigue,
loosening of straps and attachments, vibration
effects, labels that wear or fall off, long-term
material degradation.)
A.2.24 To what mechanical forces will the
medical device be subjected? N/A There are no mechanical forces
The forces to which the medical device will be
subjected are under the control of the user or
controlled by interaction with other persons.
A.2.25 What determines the lifetime of the
medical device? A
Electrolytic condenser included in power supply
determines life.
battery depletion, deterioration of materials
and failure of components due to ageing, wear,
fatigue or repeated use. The availability of
spare parts should be considered as well?
A.2.26 Is the medical device intended for
single use? N/A This product is not intended for single use.
whether the medical device self-destructs after
use

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 17 / 18
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Questions (ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A) A or
N/A Characteristics related to the safety
whether it is obvious to the user that the
medical device has been used.
A.2.27 Is safe decommissioning or disposal of
the medical device necessary?
Factors that should be considered include:
A
When do disposal, the product should disposal
according to decided method by hospital.
The waste products that are generated during
the disposal of the medical device itself, and
the proper sanitization (removal) of all
sensitive data on the medical device. For
example, does it contain hazardous material
(e.g, toxic chemical or biological agent), or is
the material recyclable? If the medical device
stores data, proper handling and security of the
stored data should be considered, including
data removal and retention.
A.2.28 Does installation or use of the medical
device require special training or special
skills?
A
The product should be installed by professional
engineer.
the complexity and novelty of the medical
device and the knowledge, skills and ability of
the persons installing, maintaining or using the
medical device. This can include training,
education, competence assessment,
certification or qualification.
A.2.29 How will information for safety be
provided? A
whether information will be provided directly
to the end user by the manufacturer or will it
involve the participation of third parties such
as installers, care providers, health care
professionals, laboratory directors or
pharmacists and whether this will have
implications for training
A Caution and use method were recorded in user
manual and technical manual.
commissioning and transferring to the end user
and whether it is likely/possible that
installation can be carried out by people
without the necessary skills
based on the type and expected lifetime of the
medical device, whether re-training or re-
certification of users or service personnel
would be indicated
A
The product should be installed by professional
engineer.
Operator and engineers need to re-training.
A.2.30 Are new manufacturing processes
established or introduced? N/A New manufacturing process is no necessity.
the application of new or innovative
technology and changes in the scale of
production. (This can also involve changes in
contract manufacturing, suppliers and
vendors.)
A.2.31 Is successful application of the medical A User interface have specified design features.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 18 / 19
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Questions (ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A) A or
N/A Characteristics related to the safety
device dependent on the usability of the user
interface?
A.2.31.1 Can the user interface design features
contribute to use error? A
User interface such as potential use error factor etc.
should be prepared exactly in design step.
control and indicators
symbols used
ergonomic features
physical design and layout
hierarchy of operation
menus for software-driven medical devices
visibility of warnings
audibility of alarms
standardisation of colour coding
A.2.31.2 Is the medical device used in an
environment where distractions can cause use
error?
N/A
The product shall be used in the intensive and
critical care units; operating and emergency rooms;
clinic, correctional facility, military field hospital
radiography; physician office.
It is used in a place that maintains proper
temperature and humidity, and in a quiet room, and
is not affected by usage errors in a distracting
environment.
the consequence of use error
whether the distractions are commonplace
whether the user can be disturbed by an
infrequent distraction
whether repetitive stress can reduce the user’s
awareness or attention.
A.2.31.3 Does the medical device have
connecting parts or accessories? A
The battery is included to product as component.
the possibility of wrong connections
similarity to other products’ connections
connection force
feedback on connection integrity
over- and under tightening
A.2.31.4 Does the medical device have a
control interface? A
The product is controlled by software program.
spacing, coding, grouping, mapping
mode of feedback
blunders, slips, control differentiation
visibility, direction of activation or change,
discrete, reversibility
A.2.31.5 Does the medical device display
information? A
Portable X-ray System displays information with 4
inch LCD.
visibility in various environments, orientation,
the visual capabilities of the user
populations and perspectives
clarity of the presented information, units,
colour coding, and the accessibility of critical

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 19 / 20
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Questions (ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A) A or
N/A Characteristics related to the safety
information.
A.2.31.6 Is the medical device controlled by a
menu? A
Portable X-ray System is controlled with buttons.
Explains how to operate in the user manual.
complexity and number of layers, awareness
of state, location of settings, navigation
method, number of steps per action
sequence clarity and memorization problems,
and importance of control function relative to
its accessibility and the impact of deviating
from specified operating procedures

A.2.31.7 Is the successful use of the medical
device dependent on a user’s knowledge, skills
and abilities?
A
• Education: at least have the ability to read the
manual
• Knowledge: User must be read and understand
user manual.
• Language understanding: Language displayed
on the label or user manual.
• Experience: Radiologist
the (intended) users, their mental and physical
abilities, skill and training
the use environment, ergonomic aspects,
installation requirement
the capability of intended users to control or
influence the use of the medical device
the personal characteristics of intended users
that can affect their ability to successfully
interact with the medical device
A.2.31.8 Will the medical device be used by
persons with specific needs? N/A The product isn’t medical device which was used by
persons with special needs.
users with special characteristics, such as
disabled persons, the elderly and children, who
might need assistance by another person to
enable the use of a medical device
users having wide-ranging skill levels and
differing cultural backgrounds and
expectations that could lead to differences in
what is considered appropriate application of
the medical device.
A.2.31.9 Can the user interface be used to
initiate user actions? A
Portable X-ray System provides user interface
through buttons and LCD.
whether the user interface allows the user to
enter an operation mode with restricted access
(e.g. for maintenance or special use)
the possibility of use error and thereby the
associated risks, and whether the user becomes
aware of having entered such operation mode.
A.2.32 Does the medical device use an alarm
system? N/A The product doesn’t use an alarm system.
the risk of false alarms, missing alarms,
disconnected alarm systems
unreliable remote alarm systems, and user’s
ability of understanding how the alarm system
works. Guidance for alarm

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 20 / 21
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Questions (ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A) A or
N/A Characteristics related to the safety
A.2.33 In what way(s) might the medical
device be deliberately misused (deliberately or
not)?
A
Might be misused by maintenance and calibration
error of operator.
User misuse may occur depending on the
manufacturer's maintenance responsibilities and
modes.
incorrect use of connectors
disabling safety features or alarms
neglect of manufacturer's recommended
maintenance.
unauthorized access to the medical device or
to medical device functions
A.2.34 Is the medical device intended to be
mobile or portable? A Intended to be designed portable.
the need for grips, handles, wheels or brakes, N/A
the need for mechanical stability and
durability. A Falling occurs while moving this product.
Damage caused by the patient's load.
A.2.35 Does the use of the medical device
depend on essential performance? N/A
Because the product is not life-supporting device
etc., doesn’t the use of the medical device depend
on essential performance.
the characteristics of the output of life
supporting medical devices or the operation of
an alarm.
A.2.36 Does the medical device have a degree
of autonomy? N/A This product has no autonomy.
awareness of the user when the medical device
with a degree of autonomy generates an error,
alarm or failure
awareness of the user when intervention in an
autonomously performed action is required
the ability of the user to intervene in or to abort
an action that is performed autonomously
the ability of the user to select and perform
proper corrective actions.
A.2.37 Does the medical device produce an
output that is used as an input in determining
clinical action?
N/A This product is not an in vitro diagnostic medical
device.
whether incorrect or delayed outputs can result
in direct or indirect risks to patients, e.g. an
incorrect diagnosis resulting in delayed or
omitted therapy for a patient.
5.2.6 The result of Identification of characteristics that could impact on safety by Threat
modeling, FMEA
The results refer to Step 1 of Risk Management FMEA table (A-CFMEA-HNX).
A total of 59 risks were identified through STRIDE Threat modeling. There are 59 risks distributed
across Spoofing, Tampering, Repudiation, Information disclosure, Denial of service, and Elevation
of privilege. (refer to clause 6 in this report)

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 21 / 22
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
5.3 Identification of hazards and hazardous situation
5.3.1 Hazard identification related to Intended use and identification of characteristics (EN
ISO 14971:2019 Annex C)
The Hazard situation (threat event) in Section 5.2.5 was analyzed as follows. The results refer to
Step 1 in Risk Management FMEA table (A-CFMEA-HNX)
5.4 Risk estimation
After reviewing NIST’s NVD and the CISA KEV Catalog for all off‑the‑shelf and open‑source
components in the SBOM, no publicly known vulnerabilities affecting this product were identified.
Subsequently, each hazardous situation was evaluated using the available data (see Chapter 6.1.2
and Step 2 of the Risk Management FMEA table). Risks were then assessed in accordance with the
Cybersecurity Risk Management Plan: threats were scored using CVSS, classified into risk levels,
and all medium‑and‑higher risks (total of 59) were evaluated.
6. Risk evaluation
The Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) method was applied as an evaluation method for
cybersecurity vulnerabilities of the Portable X-ray System (HnX-P1 & HnX-PB).
6.1 CVSS identification and score
A total of 59 risks were identified through the Treat modeling analysis and CVSS assessments were
performed on them. The risk of 59ea was scored as High with a base score of High and 13ea as
Medium.
1) The CVSS measurement site and used version.
: NVD – CVSS c3 Calculator / CVSS version 3.1
2) The severity levels by CVSS score
Severity level CVSS score range
None 0
Low 0.1 ~ 3.9
Medium 4.0 ~ 6.9
High 7.0 ~ 8.9
Critical 9.0 ~ 10.0
3) We could get a base score by entering the CVSS result value from that site.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 22 / 23
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Example of resulting data <Refer to CVSS score table>
For risks with a classification of medium or higher, the risks were additionally assessed and design
controls and tests were implemented.
6.2 Criteria for risk acceptability
The estimated risks are divided into two risk regions below according to the Cybersecurity Risk
Management Plan
-Acceptable (AR) :Broadly Acceptable Region, Green Zone, Risk levels ≤10
-Unacceptable (UR) : Unacceptable Region, Red Zone, Risk levels >10
- Risk matrix – Level of risk
Likelihood (Threat Event
Occurs and Results in
Adverse Impact)
Level of Impact
Very Low Low Medium High Very High
Frequent Very low Low Medium High Critical
Very likely Very low Low Medium High High
Likely Very low Low Low Medium Medium
Unlikely Very low Very low Low Low Low
Very unlikely Very low Very low Very low Very low Very low
6.3 Risk evaluation results
6.3.1 Risk estimation
Likelihood (Threat Event
Occurs and Results in
Adverse Impact)
Level of Impact
Very Low Low Medium High Very High
Frequent 3 1
Very likely 10 1
Likely 4 29 2
Unlikely 8 1
Very unlikely

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 23 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Item Result
Green zone, Acceptable Risk 13
Red zone, Unacceptable Risk 46
Total 59
6.4 Analysis for risk evaluation results
The risk evaluation results are determined that Broadly acceptable region 13ea , and Unacceptable
region 46 ea. Therefore it seems to require risk reduction for each identified
hazard. All risks shall be controlled by adequate risk control measures in accordance with risk
management plan
List Risk evaluation
Acceptable (AR) Unacceptable (UR) Total
Spoofing - 12 12
Tempering 3 22 25
Repudiation 7 - 7
Information
disclosure
1 5 6
Denial of service 1 1 2
Elevation of privilege 1 6 7
Total 13 46 59
7. Risk control
7.1 Assignment by Security control
Identify the corresponding risks for a total of 8 security items. (Authentication / Authorization /
Cryptography / Code, Data, and Execution Integrity / Confidentiality / Event Detection and Logging /
Resiliency and Recovery / Firmware and Software Updates)
Security control Risk ID
Authentication CRM-27, CRM-28, CRM-29, CRM-30, CRM-31, CRM-
32, CRM-59
Authorization CRM-55, CRM-56, CRM-57, CRM-58
Cryptography CRM-02, CRM-03, CRM-05, CRM-06, CRM-07, CRM-
08, CRM-09, CRM-10, CRM-11, CRM-15, CRM-17,
CRM-19, CRM-21, CRM-22, CRM-23, CRM-24
Code, Data, and Execution Integrity CRM-01, CRM-04, CRM-12, CRM-13, CRM-14, CRM-
16, CRM-18, CRM-20, CRM-25, CRM-26, CRM-40,
CRM-41, CRM-42, CRM-43, CRM-44, CRM-45, CRM-
46, CRM-47, CRM-48, CRM-49, CRM-50
Confidentiality CRM-51, CRM-52, CRM-53
Event Detection and Logging CRM-33, CRM-34, CRM-35, CRM-36, CRM-37, CRM-
38, CRM-39
Resiliency and Recovery CRM-54, CRM-57, CRM-58, CRM-59
Firmware and Software Updates CRM-17, CRM-18, CRM-47, CRM-48, CRM-49

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 24 / 25
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
7.2 Risk reduction
All risks are controlled by adequate risk control measures in accordance with risk management
plan. For details, refer to clause 7.1 to 7 .7 in this report.
7.3 Risk control option analysis
We use one or more of the following risk control options in priority order listed below, for the risks
need to be reduced to an acceptable level.
1) Designing for Inherent safety and manufacture by:
-eliminating a particular hazard,
-reducing the probability of occurrence of the harm, or
-reducing the severity of the harm
with reviewing the national and international standards to meet the requirements and try to reduce
the use errors by applying usability engineering process that we endeavor to optimize the user
interface in the product.
2) Protective measure in the medical device itself or in the manufacturing process:
-identify hazardous situations in working environment, then adding the adequate measures such as
using automatic cut-off safety valves or alarms to alert the user to hazardous conditions,
-adding the risk control measures to prevent the problems possible occurred in production phase in
accordance with the quality management plan(production procedures or inspection standard).
3) Information for safety and, where appropriate, training to users
-placing warnings in the labelling of the HnX-P1,
-restricting the use or circumstances of use of the HnX-P1,
-communicating about improper use, hazards that can occur, or other information that help reduce
risk,
-promoting use of personal protective equipment, such as X-ray protection clothing and eye-glasses,
when operating this equipment,
-including information about measures to reduce harm,
-providing training for users to improve their performance or their capability in detecting errors. or
-specifying necessary maintenance and maintenance intervals, maximum expected product service
life, or how to dispose of the HnX-P1 properly.
For details, refer to Cybersecurity Risk Management FMEA table (Doc. No. A-CFMEA-HNX)
7.4 Implementation of risk control measures
The risk control measure(s), selected in Step 3 and Appendix of Risk Management FMEA (Doc.
No. A-CFMEA-HNX), implemented using one or more of the following risk control options;
a. Designing for Inherent safety and manufacture
b. Protective measure in the medical device itself or in the manufacturing process
c. Information for safety and, where appropriate, training to users
For details, refer to Cybersecurity Risk Management FMEA table (Doc. No. A-CFMEA-HNX)

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 25 / 26
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
7.5 Residual risk evaluation
7.5.1 The residual risk evaluation results
All identified residual risks evaluated after implementation of the risk control measures, are
distributed in a broadly acceptable region.
For details, refer to Cybersecurity Risk Management FMEA table (Doc. No. A-CFMEA-HNX)
1) Risk control for Device
- Risk control results for Cybersecurity
Likelihood (Threat Event
Occurs and Results in
Adverse Impact)
Level of Impact
Very Low Low Medium High Very High
Frequent
Very likely
Likely 11
Unlikely 8 3 1
Very unlikely 1 1 5 27 2
Item Result
Green zone, Acceptable Risk 59
Red zone, Unacceptable Risk 0
Total 59
2) Result table and analysis
List Risk evaluation
Acceptable (AR) Unacceptable (UR) Total
Spoofing 12 - 12
Tempering 25 - 25
Repudiation 7 - 7
Information
disclosure
6 - 6
Denial of service 2 - 2
Elevation of privilege 7 - 7
Total 59 - 59
7.5.2 Additional risk control measures
All identified residual risks evaluated after implementation of the risk control measures, are
distributed in a broadly acceptable region. So, there are no further additional risk control measures
needed.
7.6 Benefit-risk analysis
Although 59 risks could be lowered through product improvement and testing, cyberattacks caused
by software still remain.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 26 / 27
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
For this, cyber threats will be monitored periodically in accordance with cyber security
developments,
and cyber risks to the product will be reviewed once a year to update the product if there is a risk.
In addition, when changing software in change management, it will review the elements of
cyberattacks through threat modeling and maintain the safety and effectiveness of products by
defending them.
7.7 Risks arising from risk control measure
The effectiveness of risk control measures, taking into account the following points were discussed:
- the introduction of new hazards or hazardous situations;
- whether the estimated risks for previously identified hazardous situations are affected by the
introduction of the risk control measures.
Any new or increased risks shall be managed in accordance with 5 to 7 of this report.
And we determined that the residual risk through the review of the results of this device caused by
the risk control measures are acceptable.
7.8 Completeness of risk control
All identified risks evaluated after implementation of the risk control measures, are reduced within a
broadly acceptable region. And the estimated risks for previously identified hazardous situation are
not affected by the introduction of the risk control measures. H&abyz Co., Ltd. is aware of all risks are
well identified and controlled.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 27 / 28
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
8. Evaluation of overall residual risk
After all risk control measures have been implemented and verified, we have gathered and reviewed
data and common cybersecurity attacks data to determine whether the medical benefits of the
intended use outweigh the overall residual risk.
-If the medical benefits do not outweigh the overall residual risk, then overall residual risk remains
unacceptable.
-If the medical benefits outweigh the overall residual risk, then the overall residual risk can be
judged acceptable.
-For an overall residual risk that is judged acceptable, we shall decide which information for safety
is necessary to disclose the overall residual risk.
The results of evaluation of overall residual risk are as the following;
• Benefits; It helps to diagnose disease in advance via X-ray system.
• Risks; Patient harm from product misbehavior related to cyberattacks.
• Risk Mitigation; It adopted international standards on its design for safety and performance.
• Conclusions; It is verified its safety and performance by various method.
The overall residual risks are determined to be acceptable through cyber security testing and threat
modeling, the label, operating method, adverse event reporting and usability expert review. All

expert participants and managers were written on Risk management plan.
This overall residual risk evaluation is performed by chief of R&D team and QC team with the
knowledge, experience, and authority to perform such tasks.
9. Risk management review
9.1 Implementation of the risk management plan
HnX-P1 and HnX-PB risk management activities according to the risk management plan are
performed and completed with appropriately designated personnel exclude the production and post
production related activities.
The review activities of the post production information s hall be carried out continuously
according to “ 10 . Production and post production activities
9.2 Acceptability for the overall residual risk
H&abyz Co., Ltd. figured out the intended use/intended purpose and the characteristics
related to the safety of the HnX-P1 and HnX-PB and identified the known and foreseeable hazards
associated with the HnX-P1 and HnX-PB in both normal and fault conditions.
After all risk control measures have been implemented and verified, the residual risks within the
HnX-P1 are reduced in the broadly acceptable region, and the new hazards needed for
additional risk control measures are not identified.
Finally, the overall residual risks are determined to be acceptable through the waning, operating
method, adverse event reporting and usability expert review.
Refer to “ 8 . Evaluation of overall residual risk

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 28 / 29
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
9.3 Appropriate methods to obtain relevant production and post-production information
Refer to “10 production and post production activities ” for getting the information of production
and post production phases.
9.4 Risk management declaration of conformity
The risk management of HnX-P1 and HnX-PB are performed to take into account the risks such as
design, production, storage, related international standards, state of art, and foreseeable risks related
to the intended use. H&abyz tried to prevent the risk from healthcare of medical device
handlers, operators, everyone who involved in the patient’s health. H&abyz identified the hazards,
estimate the related risks and controlled them. As described in the risk management report, all
identified hazards are reduced into acceptable levels, additional risks associated with the intended
use, are not detected. Also as compared to the clinical efficacy and effects of other similar medical
devices.
HnX-P1 and HnX-PB are expected to be well suited to the intended use/intended purpose of this
device. In addition, risk control is performed by collecting and analyzing customer requirements,
satisfaction, customer complaints, and Vigilance for products sold in the market, and predicting
and analyzing risks after product sales. It also proactively controls risks by predicting them through
PMCF work on equivalence products.
10. Production and post-production activities
10.1 Collection and review activities in production and post-production phase
Department in
charge
Information collection and review in production and post-production
Quality Assurance 1. Customer satisfaction survey
Conduct the activities such as maintenance and repair at customer site, once
every 12 months.
• Reference: Customer satisfaction management
2. Monitoring results of the incoming inspection and end product test results
Monitoring the relationship between the problems in the incoming inspection
and end product testing.
• Reference: Test and inspection procedure of the Purchased, semi-finished
and final product
3. Monitoring the measuring devices
Maintenance the measuring devices related to risk controls and monitoring the
problem occurs due to the repair, calibration and regular maintenance
activities of the measuring devices.
R&D 1. Design changes
Any changes made to the product, such as updates or new features, may
introduce new vulnerabilities or modify existing ones.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 29 / 30
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
These changes are thoroughly reviewed to establish a relevant cybersecurity
risk management plan. In addition, the results of risk analysis, risk assessment,
risk management, and residual risk assessment are recorded and maintained
according to the plan, and the results are reflected in the production stage.
2. Develop and release patches
Review your cybersecurity risks once a year and update them if you believe
there is a threat to your cybersecurity.
3. Exception
When updates occur due to new risks, legal requirements, and product
changes, they can be reflected in the field as quickly as possible, taking into
account their importance and severity.
RA 1. Monitoring the national and international standards
Monitoring the medical appliance act and related international standards, and
reflect the results in the development department.
• Reference: Design/development procedure
2. Collect and analysis of the market information
Collect the market information such as similar device, competitor device
including our device monitoring and analysis the medical device incidents,
close calls and side effects.
3. CISC monitoring
Cyber threats will be reviewed, the reviewed risk will be verified through
CISA's Catalog, and a solution will be drawn.
Customer Service Statistical processing of customer complaints
In the event of a cyber security issue from a customer, communicate with the
customer according to the change management procedure and service process.
In this case, the complaint is feedback to the relevant department and the
revised results are monitored and delivered to the customer.
• Reference: Customer complaints, Change Control Procedure
Production Process management monitoring
Monitoring the relationship between the problems in the process inspection
and the risks.
Management Monitoring the purchaser assessment results
Monitoring the relationship between the problems in the material inspection
and supplier relationships.
10.2 Responsibility and the role of the Quality manager
(1) Collect, review the information and manage the quality problems in production and post-
production phase
(2) Risk analysis for the collected information (Annually)
Analysis the previously unknown hazards or hazardous situations exist or arise new hazards in the
context of working environment, and whether the estimated risks for previously identified
hazardous situations are affected by the introduction of the information.
Refer to PMS Report (Doc No. A-PMS-HNX)
(3) Control the new hazards

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CRMR-HNX
Rev. No. 5
Cybersecurity Risk
Management Report
Rev. Date March 03, 2026
Page 30 / 30
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
1) If previously unknown hazards or hazardous situations exist and the risk is not judged acceptable:
-assess the effect of the previously implemented risk management activities;
-review the risk management files whether the additional risk control measures are needed to
control the hazards.
2) After the adequate assessment, If the new hazards exist or additional risk control measures are
needed, proceed the iterative risk management activities and update the risk management file.
3) If the risk management plan is need to be updated, record the changes and have to be received
the re-approval.
(4) Adverse event reporting, If necessary
According to the seriousness of the information collected, the Quality manager shall report safety
information and any side effects to the regulatory agency (Applicable national or regional
regulations).
11. Reference
1) Cybersecurity Risk management plan (Doc No. A-CRMP-HNX)
2) Cybersecurity FMEA table (Doc No. A-CFMEA-HNX)
