queueId: ingest-1781569954374-43m
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/01_DHF/06_HnX-R1 (Retrofit)/05_설계개발 검증 및 유효성 확인/08_Cybersecurity/1. A-CDR-HNXR1_Cybersecurity Development Report (Rev.0 250806).pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/857a443e278d/1. A-CDR-HNXR1_Cybersecurity Development Report (Rev.0 250806)__857a443e278d_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: f0a41548b55d
productSignal: HnX
authoritySignal: CE/MDR
pilotRank: 460

SOURCE_TEXT
Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 1 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Cybersecurity Development Report
Product name: digital X-ray imaging system
Model name: HnX-R1
Ref no.
Detector 1
(G series)
G1417CW, G1417CWP, G1417FW, G1417FWP,
G1717CW, G1717CWP, G1717FW, G1717FWP
Detector 2
(2/3G series) A1717MCW, A1417MCW, F1417MCW
Console
software HnVUE
Name Position Date Signature
Prepared by Jimin HAN RA team August 06,
2025
Reviewed by Kyungsoo LEE R&D Manager August 06,
2025
Approved by Namkyu HUR
Quality
Management
Representative
August 06,
2025

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 2 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Revision History
Revision No. Rev. Date Revision Description
0 August 02, 2025 Initial

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 3 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Contents
1. Overview ····················································································································· 4
2. Terms and Definitions······································································································· 5
3. General Product Description ······························································································· 8
4. Cybersecurity Development Plan ·························································································· 9
5. Responsibilities and Roles································································································ 11
6. Medical Device Architecture ····························································································· 12
7. Identification of Vulnerabilities ·························································································· 14
8. Identified Risks by Vulnerability category ············································································· 15
9. Verification Activities ····································································································· 20
10. Production and Post-production Activities ············································································ 20
11. Interoperability functionality ··························································································· 21
12. Update Management ····································································································· 22
13. Security Incident Response Activities ················································································· 23

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 4 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
1. Overview
1.1 Scope
The Cybersecurity Development Report for the HnX-R1 documents all the activities and
procedures taken to ensure the cybersecurity of this specific device, in accordance with the IEC
81001-5-1 standard. This report includes detailed records of architecture analysis, threat modeling,
vulnerability analysis, identification of security requirements, risk assessment, and mitigation.
Additionally, it covers the security frameworks and protocols adhered to during the development
of the HnX-R1 as well as the security features integrated into its software and hardware
components. By thoroughly documenting these aspects, the report provides a comprehensive
overview of the cybersecurity measures implemented throughout the development lifecycle of the
HnX-R1.
This document applies to all software under development or in progress, or which was completed,
but not to the following cases:
① Research activities
② Initial technical feasibility assessment activities
③ Activities to support prototypes that are not intended to be provided to customers
1.2 Purpose
The purpose of the Cybersecurity Development Report for HnX-R1 is to demonstrate compliance
with the IEC 81001-5-1 standard, ensuring that this specific device meets all cybersecurity
requirements. This report aims to confirm that the HnX-R1 is equipped with appropriate protective
measures against cyber threats, thus safeguarding patient safety and maintaining data integrity.
Furthermore, the report provides precise and reliable cybersecurity information to regulatory
bodies and other stakeholders, facilitating the approval and certification process. By presenting
detailed documentation of the cybersecurity practices followed during the development of the
HnX-R1, the report also aims to enhance the device's credibility and marketability, ensuring that it
meets the high standards required for safe and secure operation in the healthcare environment.
standards required for safe and secure operation in the healthcare environment.
The target audience of this document is as follows:
① Software Development Team Staff
② Software Testing Team Staff
③ Project Manager
④ Quality Assurance Manager
⑤ Product Manager
⑥ Cybersecurity Manager

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 5 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
2. Terms and Definitions
2.1 Accompanying documentation
documentation intended to be used for a health software or a health IT system or an accessory,
containing information for the responsible organization or operator.
2.2 Architecture
fundamental concepts or properties of a system in its environment, embodied in its elements,
relationships, and in the principles of its design and evolution.
2.3 Asset
physical or digital entity that has value to an individual, an organization or a government
a) data and information;
b) health software and software needed for its operation;
c) hardware components such as computers, mobile devices, servers, databases, and networks;
d) services, including security, software development, IT operations and externally provided services
such as data centers, internet and software-as-a-service and cloud solutions;
e) people, and their qualifications, skills and experience;
f) technical procedures and documentation to manage and support the health IT infrastructure;
g) health IT systems that are configured and implemented to address organizational objectives by
leveraging the assets; and
h) intangibles, such as reputation and image.
2.4 Attack
attempt to destroy, expose, alter, disable, steal or gain unauthorized access to or make unauthorized use
of an asset
2.5 Attack surface
physical and functional interfaces of a system that can be accessed and, therefore, potentially
exploited by an attacker
2.6 Authentication
verification of the claimed identity of an entity
2.7 Authenticity
property that an entity is what it claims to be through authentication of origin and verification of
integrity
2.8 Availability
property of being accessible and usable on demand by an authorized entity
2.9 Confidentiality
property that information is not made available or disclosed to unauthorized individuals, entities,
or processes
2.10 Essential function
function or capability that is required to maintain basic safety, essential performance, a minimum

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 6 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
of clinical functionality as specified by the manufacturer, and operational availability for the
medical device. essential functions include, but are not limited to, the safety instrumented
function (basic safety and essential performance), the control function and the availability of
urgently needed functions and such allowing the operator to view and manipulate the medical
device safely with the most urgently needed performance (operational availability). the loss of
essential function is commonly termed loss of protection, loss of control and loss of view
respectively.
2.11 Exploit
defined way to breach the security of information systems through some vulnerability
2.12 Firecall
method established to provide emergency access to a secure medical device. in an emergency
situation, unprivileged users can gain access to key systems to correct the problem.
2.13 Health IT infrastructure
combined set of IT assets available to the individual or organization for developing, configuring,
i ntegrating, maintaining, and using it services and supporting health, patient care and other
organizational objectives
2.14 Health IT system
a combination of interacting health information elements (including health software, medical
devices, IT hardware, interfaces, data, procedures and documentation) that is configured and
implemented to support and enable an individual or organization s specific health objective
2.15 Health software
software intended to be used specifically for managing, maintaining, or improving health of
individual persons, or the delivery of care, or which has been developed for the purpose of
being incorporated into a medical device
2.16 Healthcare delivery organization(HDO)
facility or enterprise such as a clinic or hospital that provides healthcare services
2.17 Integrity
property of accuracy and completeness
2.18 Intended environment of use
conditions and setting in which users interact with the health software as specified by the
manufacture
2.19 Intended use
use for which a product, process or service is intended according to the specifications,
instructions and information provided by the manufacturer
2.20 Least privilege
basic principle that holds that users (humans, software processes or devices) should be assigned
the fewest privilege s consistent with their assigned duties and functions
2.21 Life cycle
series of all phases in the life of a product or system, from the initial conception to final
decommissioning and disposal

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 7 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
2.22 Manufacturer
organization with responsibility for design or manufacture of a product
2.23 Medical IT-network
IT network that incorporates at least one medical device
2.24 Residual risk
risk remaining after risk control measures have been implemented
2.25 Risk control
process in which decisions are made and measures implemented by which risks are reduced to,
or maintained within, specified levels
2.26 Risk management
systematic application of management policies, procedures and practices to the tasks of
analyzing, evaluating, controlling and monitoring risk
2.27 Security capability
broad category of technical, administrative or organizational controls to manage risks to
confidentiality, integrity, availability and accountability of data and systems
2.28 Software composition analysis
(electronic) analysis of binaries
2.29 Software item
identifiable part of a computer program, i.e. source code, object code, control code, control data,
or a collection of these items
2.30 Software maintenance
modification of health software after release maintenance keeps the intended use and is done
for one or more of the following reasons:
a) corrective, as fixing faults;
b) adaptive, as adapting to new hardware or software platform;
c) perfective, as implementing new requirements;
d) preventive, as making the product more maintainable.
2.31 Supported software
Software item for which the manufacturer will notify the customer regarding known risks related
to security
2.32 Threat
potential for violation of security, which exists when there is a circumstance, capability, action, or
event that could breach security and cause damage to confidentiality, integrity, availability of
information assets
2.33 Threat modelling
systematic exploration technique to expose any circumstance or event having the potential to
cause damage to a system in the form of destruction, disclosure, modific ation of data, or denial
of service
2.34 Trust boundary
element of a threat model that depicts a boundary where authentication is required or a change

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 8 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
in trust level occurs (higher to lower or vice versa)
1) trust boundary enforcement mechanisms for product users typically include authentication (for
example, challenge/response, passwords, biometrics or digital signatures) and associated
authorization (for example, access control rules).
2) trust boundary enforcement mechanisms for data typically include source
authentication (for
example, message authentication codes and digital signatures) and/or content validation. USE
ENVIRONMENT actual conditions and setting in which users interact with the health software
2.35 Vulnerability
flaw or weakness in a systems design, implementation, or operation and management that could
be exploited to violate the system s security policy
2.36 Weakness
kind of deficiency
3. General Product Description
3.1 Product description
Product name Digital X-ray Imaging System
Model name HnX-R1
Ref. No. Detector 1
(G series)
G1417CW, G1417CWP, G1417FW, G1417FWP,
G1717CW, G1717CWP, G1717FW, G1717FWP
Detector 2
(2/3G series) A1717MCW, A1417MCW, F1417MCW
Console
software HnVUE
Manufacturer H&abyz Co., Ltd.
Manufacturer address 1F, 2-dong, 41-16 Cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-eup, Cheoin-gu,
Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea
Intended use HnX-R1 (Digital X-ray Imaging System) is indicated for digital
imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic
diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It
is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic systems.
Not to be used for mammography.
The HnX-R1 wired/wireless digital X-ray imaging system consists of Detector, Power supply box,
Battery pack, Battery charger, Other Accessories and software for image acquisition and image
processing and does not include the X-ray generator. The detector is a wired/wireless type, and
there are 8 types of G series (G1417CW, G1417CWP, G1417FW, G1417FWP, G1717CW,
G1717CWP, G1717FW, G1717FWP) and 3 types of 2/3G series (A1717MCW, A1417MCW,
F1417MCW). The name of the image acquisition and image processing software (Console
software) is HnVUE.
This system is used to capture images by transmitting X-ray to a patient’s body. The X-ray passing
through a patient’s body is sent to the detector and then converted into electrical signals. These
signals go through the process of amplification and digital data conversion in the signal process

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 9 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
device before being sent to the HnVUE (Console Software) and saved in DICOM file, a standard
for medical imaging. The captured images are sent to the Picture Archiving & Communication
System (PACS) server, and can be used for reading images.
The cybersecurity risk of the HnX-R1 have been addressed to assure that no new or increased
cybersecurity risks were introduced as a part of device risk analysis. These risks are defined as
sequence of events leading to a hazardous situation, and the control for their risks were treated and
implemented as proposed in the risk analysis (e.g., requirements, verification)
4. Cybersecurity Development Plan
4.1 Resource Allocation
Effective resource allocation is critical for a successful cybersecurity implementation, which
includes establishing dedicated cybersecurity roles and assigning specific responsibilities to each
member.
4.2 Policy
Cybersecurity management policies should outline the management strategies and protocols for
maintaining cybersecurity during the development, deployment, and maintenance of the medical
device. policies should include guidelines for secure coding practices, regular security assessments,
incident response, and compliance with regulatory requirements.
4.3 Threat modeling
Threat modeling is the process of systematically identifying potential threats and vulnerabilities

that could affect a medical device. This involves creating a comprehensive model that maps out all
possible attack vectors, entry points, and weaknesses in the device's architecture. The goal is to
understand how an attacker might exploit these vulnerabilities and the potential impact on the
device's functionality, data integrity, and patient safety. Techniques such as STRIDE (Spoofing,
Tampering, Repudiation, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service, Elevation of Privilege) can be
used to categorize and analyze threats.
* STRIDE
The STRIDE algorithm primarily focuses on the security and integrity of the product itself, rather
than its interaction with the surrounding environment. This makes it especially suitable for
medical devices, where the main concern is the device's security. By concentrating on the device,
STRIDE enables a more comprehensive analysis of its inherent security risks.
4.4 Risk assessment
Once potential threats and vulnerabilities have been identified through threat modeling, the next
step is to evaluate the impact and likelihood of each threat. Risk analysis involves assessing the
severity of the impact if a threat were to be realized and the probability of its occurrence.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 10 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
As a method for risk assessment, we apply CVSS (Common Vulnerability Scoring System).
1) The CVSS measurement site and used version.
: NVD – CVSS c3 Calculator / CVSS version 3.1
2) The severity levels by CVSS score
Severity level CVSS score range
None 0
Low 0.1 ~ 3.9
Medium 4.0 ~ 6.9
High 7.0 ~ 8.9
Critical 9.0 ~ 10.0
3) We could get a base score by entering the CVSS result value from that site.
4.5 Risk Mitigation Plan
After analyzing the risks, a risk mitigation plan is developed to outline the security controls and
measures needed to reduce the identified risks to an acceptable level. This plan should detail specific
actions to be taken, such as implementing encryption, access controls, regular security updates, and
continuous monitoring. The mitigation strategies should address both the likelihood and impact of
the risks, ensuring that vulnerabilities are minimized, and the device is protected against potential
threats.
4.6 Security requirements
Deriving security requirements is a critical step in the design and development phase. This involves
identifying both functional and non-functional security requirements based on the IEC 60601-4-5.
The requirements specify the security features that the device must have, such as user authentication,
access control, and secure communication protocols.
4.7 Security design
Designing a secure system involves creating the device and its components to meet specific security
requirements. This requires developing a detailed security architecture that specifies how data will
be protected, how secure communication will be maintained, and how access to the device will be
controlled.
4.8 Secure Coding Practices
Following secure coding practices is crucial to prevent vulnerabilities in the development of
medical devices. Developers should comply with established secure coding standards, such as those
provided by CWE, to avoid common security pitfalls.
4.9 Testing and Verification
During the Testing and Verification phase, we use a thorough approach to guarantee the security of
the medical device. We employ static analysis tools to identify code vulnerabilities early in the
development process, which helps in detecting and fixing issues before they escalate. Additionally,
dynamic analysis is conducted to test the device in a runtime environment and uncover

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 11 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
vulnerabilities that may not be apparent through static analysis alone.
Cyber tests are divided into cyber tests when developing new products and existing ones according
to internal guidelines.
In the case of new products, cybersecurity requirements are developed and tested in the entire
process from product design input to output and transfer, and if necessary, a third-party testing
agency will conduct it.
In the case of products currently being sold, a cyber security expert monitors cyber issues in the
market quarterly, and if there are any related cyber risks, analyze them through cooperation with
other departments such as the quality team, and develop product changes if necessary.
After the change, conduct a cybersecurity test internally and update the product to the market after
the test verification.
Additionally, cybersecurity modeling as a legal requirement is tested through a third-party agency
when work is required overall.
4.10 Deployment and operation
In the Deployment and Operation phase, the system is securely deployed with all necessary security
configurations applied to ensure a fortified environment. Continuous operational monitoring is
conducted to maintain the security status, including managing and analyzing logs for any
suspicious activity. Effective vulnerability management is critical; this involves swiftly patching
and updating the system upon the discovery of new vulnerabilities to prevent potential security
breaches. This proactive approach ensures that the medical device remains secure and resilient
against evolving threats throughout its operational lifecycle.
4.11 Maintenance
In the Maintenance phase, regular updates and patches are managed to address new security threats
promptly, ensuring the system remains secure. Continuous security monitoring is essential to detect
and respond to potential incidents swiftly, supported by a well-defined incident response plan.
Additionally, user education is crucial; providing security awareness training helps users recognize
and prevent security breaches, reinforcing the overall cybersecurity posture of the medical device
system. This comprehensive maintenance strategy ensures ongoing protection and resilience
against emerging threats.
5. Responsibilities and Roles
The following section outlines the roles and responsibilities of key personnel involved in the
medical device cybersecurity process. It defines the duties of software development team staff,
software testing team staff, project manager, project manager, quality assurance manager, product
manager and cybersecurity manager to ensure comprehensive security compliance and effective
collaboration.
Team Position Responsibilities
R&D R&D Manager 1) Approval of Cyber Security Risk Management
2) Approval to proceed with the cybersecurity test
3) Approval of cyber risk countermeasures
R&D R&D Team 1) Cyber Security Risk Management Plan and Risk
Management Proceedings
2) Supervising Cybersecurity Testing
3) Establish guidelines for cyber security risk response
4) Review Cyber Security Risk Management Documents

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 12 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
5) Development of security methods against cyber risks
6) Identify and analyze cyber risks
7) Proceed with cyber risk management and create documents
8) Cybersecurity Design and Development
9) Conducting a Cybersecurity Test
10) Identifying Cybersecurity Hazards
11) Cybersecurity Hazard Analysis and Reporting
12)Proceed with CAPA for Cybersecurity
R&D RA 1) Conducting and managing third-party testing related to
cybersecurity testing
2) Monitoring of the latest standards related to cyber security
and internal announcements
Quality
Control
QMR 1) Monitoring cyber hazards and reporting to regulators
2) Proceed with CAPA for Cyber Hazard
3) Identification of cyber issues related to design changes and
notification of changes
6. Medical Device Architecture
The architecture of this medical device comprises four main components: data assets, technical assets, trust
boundaries, and shared runtime environments. Each component plays a crucial role in ensuring the
cybersecurity and operational integrity of the device.
This architecture outlines four key perspectives for cybersecurity in medical devices, as recommended by
the FDA. Each perspective addresses different aspects of cybersecurity. Instead of creating individual Data
Flow Diagrams (DFDs) for each perspective, a unified DFD will be used with tags to represent each
perspective. This approach provides a comprehensive visualization while clearly differentiating between the
various aspects of cybersecurity.
6.1 Data-Flow Diagram
A Data-Flow Diagram (DFD) in medical device cybersecurity is a graphical representation that
maps out the flow of data within a medical system. It highlights how data moves between devices,
systems, and users, identifying points where data is input, processed, stored, and output. By
visualizing these flows, DFDs help identify potential vulnerabilities in data handling, transmission,
and storage. (Refer to Medical device Threat modeling document No. A-CTMR-HNXR1)

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 13 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Asset:
A1~A25: These assets are entities implemented in the console application and consist of a database,
data manipulation process, detector, and communication interface between PACS/worklist servers and
a GUI interface for the console program to implement its functions.
A1~A6: Console Subcomponents, SQL database structure implemented in Console
application
A7:User interface with console accessing by console user(keyboards, Display interfacing, IO
device etc)
A8~A21: Console Subcomponents, Console Application Process : The console application
process is comprised of functions responsible for the image acquisition station, such as post-
processing images acquired from the detector, matching them with the worklist, transmitting
this information to an independent PACS server within the hospital, and communicating with
the detector.
A22: Console – PACS/Worklist server ethernet communication interface
A23-25: Console – Detector ethernet communication interface
A26~A32: These assets are entities implemented in the detector inside and consist of a database, data
manipulation process, interface for the console program to communication its image data.
A26~27: Detector subcomponents, The detector firmware process is a stand-alone board that
acts as the CPU in the detector, manages the detector storage system and communication
modules, and configures overall image communication and detector settings.
A28~29: Detector subcomponents, Detector System Storage (store) serves as the memory
required to store and communicate images from the detector.
A30~A31 : communication interface between Detector and console implementation by
software communication protocol(Socket API)
A32: Detector subcomponents, Communication and data requests are communication protocols for
image data and transmission between firmware processes, communication interfaces, and data system
storage, and are passages for transmitting images and data

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 14 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
7. Identification of Vulnerabilities
7.1 Vulnerability monitoring and scanning
It is crucial to monitor and scan for vulnerabilities to ensure the cybersecurity of medical devices.
The process of identifying and addressing vulnerabilities depends on whether the technical asset is
primarily software or hardware. Utilizing the Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) framework
can systematically help in identifying and mitigating vulnerabilities in both software and hardware
components.
7.1.1 Cybersecurity Requirements (IEC 60601-4-5)
The requirements outlined in IEC 60601-4-5 emphasize the importance of device integrity,
patient safety, and the protection of sensitive data throughout the device's lifecycle. These
requirements have been thoroughly analyzed and organized according to the IEC 60601-4-5
standard, which offers guidance on safety-related technical security specifications for medical
electrical equipment. This structured approach ensures that the devices comply with regulatory
expectations and meet international standards.
7.1.2 Software components
Vulnerability assessment for software components can be effectively performed using Static
Application Security Testing (SAST). SAST involves analyzing the software's source code,
bytecode, or binary code to identify potential security weaknesses without executing the code.
This method is aligned with the CWE framework, which categorizes common software
vulnerabilities such as buffer overflows (CWE-119), SQL injection (CWE-89), and cross-site
scripting (CWE-79). Integrating CWE identifiers into SAST tools helps systematically detect
and address these vulnerabilities throughout the cybersecurity development lifecycle.
7.1.3 Hardware Components
In order to assess hardware components for vulnerabilities, a collaborative effort between
developers and cybersecurity experts is necessary. This may involve working with accredited
testing laboratories. Identifying hardware vulnerabilities often requires detailed discussions and
evaluations, which can include physical penetration testing and firmware analysis. While the
Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) primarily focuses on software, it also includes
categories for hardware vulnerabilities, such as those related to physical tampering. By using
CWE identifiers, developers and testers can ensure comprehensive coverage of potential
hardware weaknesses.
7.1.4 SBOM (Software Bill of Materials)
Managing an SBOM (Software Bill of Materials) for medical device cybersecurity involves
creating a detailed inventory of all software components, continuously monitoring for
vulnerabilities. Key actions include regular updates and maintenance of the SBOM,
conducting risk assessments, and integrating it into incident response plans.
When End of Support (EOS) or End of Life (EOL) information for software components in
the SBOM is not available, it's important to take proactive measures to ensure ongoing
cybersecurity. The following steps outline a strategy for effectively managing such
components:
1) Regular Vulnerability Analysis – Manual scanning and reviews

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 15 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
2) Risk Mitigation - Patching and Updates
3) Documentation and Justification - Risk Assessment, Justification for Use
7.2 Continuous Monitoring
To ensure the cybersecurity of medical devices, manufacturers should develop, document, and
maintain secure health software designs by implementing best practices. Continuous monitoring is
essential in this approach and includes regular vulnerability scans, static application security testing
analysis, and internal reviews to identify and address security risks.
Analysis tools, manufacturers can proactively mitigate potential vulnerabilities. Any issues
identified are promptly managed through updates and patches. Additionally, integrating threat
intelligence helps the device remain resilient against emerging threats. Comprehensive
documentation of all activities and findings supports regulatory compliance, thereby safeguarding
both patient safety and data integrity
7.3 Evaluating Vulnerabilities
Our method of evaluating vulnerabilities involves analyzing technical assets using the CVSS 3.1
method, while excluding out-of-scope items. This systematic process assesses the severity and
potential impact of security flaws in our software and hardware systems. By using CVSS 3.1, we
can measure risk levels through a detailed evaluation of exploitability and impacts on confidentiality,
integrity, and availability. This method ensures that we accurately identify and prioritize
vulnerabilities for remediation, ultimately enhancing our security posture. Specially for medical
devices, this approach aligns with regulatory standards, ensuring patient safety and compliance.
However, as this evaluation is for medical devices, neither Temporal scores nor environmental
scores are not considered.
8. Identified Risks by Vulnerability category
Managing cybersecurity risks for HnX-R1 starts with reviewing the completed or updated risk
management processes at every design phase. In the end, a Cybersecurity Risk Management
document will be created to show the final review of all risk management documents, risk

acceptability, and residual risk. This process is crucial for systematically analyzing and handling
cybersecurity threats related to the product.
8.1 Risk Identification
Cybersecurity risks for HnX-R1 will be identified, analyzed, and evaluated according to the
objectives of the risk management process and the ranking system for security risk analysis. This
will be done with reference to ISO 14971:2019, TR 24971:2020, AAMI TIR 57 standards, and the
latest international guidelines, including those from the FDA. This ensures a comprehensive and
systematic approach to managing and mitigating cybersecurity threats, aligning with global best
practices and standards.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 16 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
8.1.1 Identification of Assets
An asset is anything of value for the manufacturer or the end-user. Assets can include hardware,
software, data, and other tangible or intangible items. For HnX-R1, identifying assets is crucial
for comprehensive cybersecurity risk management. Assets are categorized and analyzed as
follows:
1) Data Assets
2) Technical Assets
3) Trust Boundaries
4) Shared Runtime
8.1.2 Identification of Threats
For medical device cybersecurity, threats are identified by analyzing potential vulnerabilities
in hardware, software, data, and network communications. This includes assessing risks such
as unauthorized access, data breaches, malware, and system tampering.
8.1.3 Identification of Vulnerabilities
For medical device cybersecurity, vulnerabilities in technical assets are identified using the
CVSS methodology. This involves assessing weaknesses in hardware, software, and network
components that could be exploited.
8.1.4 STRIDE Classification of identified risks
During the threat modeling process for medical device cybersecurity, potential risks were
identified. These risks are classified according to STRIDE categories as follows: Spoofing,
Tampering, Repudiation, Information Disclosure, Denial of Service, Elevation of Privilege.
Identifying these risks plays a crucial role in ensuring the safety and data protection of medical
devices.
8.2 Risk Identification
In medical device cybersecurity, risk estimation involves evaluating the impact and likelihood of
identified threats and vulnerabilities. As a method for risk assessment, we apply CVSS (Common
Vulnerability Scoring System).
8.2.1 CVSS Score
4) The CVSS measurement site and used version.
: NVD – CVSS c3 Calculator / CVSS version 3.1
5) The severity levels by CVSS score
Severity level CVSS score range
None 0
Low 0.1 ~ 3.9
Medium 4.0 ~ 6.9
High 7.0 ~ 8.9
Critical 9.0 ~ 10.0
6) We could get a base score by entering the CVSS result value from that site.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 17 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
8.2.2 Impact
This refers to the potential consequences of a threat exploiting a vulnerability, taking into
account patient safety, data integrity, and operational continuity.
Very High (VH) Critical to system safety and possible legal and regulatory violations
High (H) Major device function failure, possible direct risk to patient safety
Medium (M) Possible to degrade system performance or impact data integrity
Low (L) Possible to cause partial function failure or some inconvenience to user
experience
Very Low (VL) Limitless to system operation
8.2.3 Likelihood
This is the probability of the threat occurring, considering the existing security controls and the
threat landscape.
Frequent (F) Exploitation is very easy and likely to occur frequently (e.g. public vulnerability)
Very Likely (VL) Exploitation is possible and likely to be exploited by malicious attackers
Likely (L) Exploitation is possible under certain conditions, but technically difficult
Unlikely (U) Exploitation is difficult and requires advanced technical knowledge
Very Unlikely
(VU)
Exploitation is practically impossible (e.g. hardware access required)
8.3 Risk Evaluation
In medical device cybersecurity, risk evaluation follows the NIST 800-30 guideline and ISO
14971:2019 standard. As a method for risk assessment, we apply CVSS (Common Vulnerability
Scoring System). This is done by multiplying the impact and likelihood to classify risk levels. The
levels include, critical, high, medium, low, and very low, and they determine the acceptability of
the risk. Risks at critical, High and Medium levels are deemed unacceptable and require immediate
mitigation. On the other hand, Low, Very Low are acceptable with regular monitoring. This method
ensures that every risk is meticulously assessed and managed, leaving no room for cyber threats to
cause harm.
8.3.1 Risk Levels
In medical device cybersecurity, risk evaluation is conducted by assessing the impact and
likelihood of identified threats. The process involves calculating the risk level and classifying
it into predefined categories.
- Assessment scale – Level of risk
Critical (C) Extremely hazardous, requiring immediate security action. Potential direct threat
to patient safety.
High (H) High risk, requiring rapid security action. System performance degradation, high
potential for data leakage.
Medium (M) Medium risk, requiring long-term security enhancements but may not be urgent.
Low (L) Low risk, not operationally impactful but may require additional improvements.
Very Low (VL) Negligible low risk. Not likely to cause problems in normal operating
environments.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 18 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
- Risk matrix – Level of risk
Likelihood (Threat Event
Occurs and Results in
Adverse Impact)
Level of Impact
Very Low Low Medium High Very High
Frequent Very low Low Medium High Critical
Very likely Very low Low Medium High High
Likely Very low Low Low Medium Medium
Unlikely Very low Very low Low Low Low
Very unlikely Very low Very low Very low Very low Very low
8.3.2 Risk Acceptance Criteria
Risk Acceptance Criteria help in making informed decisions about which risks can be accepted
and which need to be mitigated. By systematically combining the likelihood and impact, it
provides a clear and consistent method for evaluating risk acceptability, ensuring that high-risk
scenarios are prioritized for action, while lower risks are managed appropriately within
acceptable limits.
- Assessment scale – Acceptable/Unacceptable
Qualitative
Values
Semi-Quantitative
Values
Description
Critical
21 - 25 Unacceptable; Critical risk means that a threat event could be
expected to have multiple severe or catastrophic adverse
effects
High 16 - 20 Unacceptable; High risk means that a threat event could be
expected to have a severe or catastrophic adverse effect
Medium 11 – 15 Unacceptable; Medium risk means that a threat event could be
expected to have a serious adverse effect
Low 6 – 10 Acceptable; Low risk means that a threat event could be
expected to have a limited adverse effect
Very Low 1 - 5 Acceptable; Very low risk means that a threat event could be
expected to have a negligible adverse effect
- Risk matrix – Acceptable/Unacceptable
Likelihood
(Threat Event
Occurs and
Results in
Adverse
Impact)
Level of Impact
Very Low Low Medium High Very High
Frequent Acceptable Acceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable
Very likely Acceptable Acceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable
Likely Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable
Unlikely Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable
Very unlikely Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable Acceptable

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 19 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
8.4 Risk Control
Risk control in medical device cybersecurity involves implementing strategies to reduce identified
risks. This can be achieved by taking preventative action to lower the likelihood of a threat
occurring, or by taking contingency action to minimize the impact if a threat does occur. The key
components of risk control include:
1) Access Control: Implement strong authentication and authorization mechanisms
2) Network Security: Use firewalls, intrusion detection/prevention systems (IDS/IPS), and secure
communication protocols (e.g., TLS, HTTPS)
3) Data Encryption: Encrypt sensitive data to protect its confidentiality and integrity
4) Regular Updates and Patching: Ensure timely updates and patches to address known
vulnerabilities
5) Redundancy: Design systems with redundancy
6) Security Guidelines: Step-by-step instructions on how to securely operate the device
7) Warning Labels: Include labels on how to protect the device from common cybersecurity threats
8.5 Residual Risk Assessment After Risk Control
In medical device cybersecurity, residual risk assessment involves evaluating the remaining risks
after implementing risk controls. This process, based on NIST 800-30 and ISO 14971, includes
reassessing the likelihood and impact of identified threats to ensure they meet acceptable levels,
and it ensures patient safety and data integrity. Continuous risk management and compliance with
regulatory standards are ensured through this process
8.6 Risk Arising from Risk Control Measure
In medical device cybersecurity, implementing risk control measures may introduce new risks.
According to NIST 800-30 and ISO 14971, these risks may include potential system
incompatibilities, performance degradation, or unforeseen vulnerabilities. It is essential to
continuously monitor and reassess these emerging risks for effective management.
8.7 Risk/Benefit analysis
In the medical device cybersecurity, a risk/benefit analysis evaluates the potential risks associated
with security measures in comparison to the advantages of safeguarding patient data and
maintaining device integrity. Drawing from NIST 800-30 and ISO 14971, this analysis guarantees
that cybersecurity controls do not bring about undue risks and that the overall benefits to patient
safety and data security warrant the implementation of these measures.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 20 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
9. Verification Activities
It's crucial to carry out verification activities to ensure that the cybersecurity measures for medical
devices are strong and reliable. These activities involve various tests aimed at identifying
vulnerabilities and confirming that security controls comply with regulatory standards such as
NIST 800-30 and ISO 14971.
- Verification activities (Example)
Test Description
Static Application
Security Testing (SAST)
SAST involves analyzing the source code of the software to
identify security vulnerabilities without executing the program.
Requirement testing Requirement testing ensures that the implemented security
controls and features meet the IEC 60601-4-5 standard.
Vulnerability testing Vulnerability testing process involves scanning the system and
its components for known vulnerabilities
Fuzzing testing Fuzzing involves inputting random or unexpected data into the
software to uncover security vulnerabilities and bugs.
Penetration testing Penetration testing simulates real-world cyberattacks to
evaluate the security of the medical device.
10. Production and Post-production Activities
The Risk Management File for cybersecurity of medical devices will be systematically reviewed
and updated, especially in the following situations:
1) Product Modification: Any changes made to the product, such as updates or new features, may
introduce new vulnerabilities or modify existing ones. It's important to thoroughly review these
changes to assess the cybersecurity risks involved.
2) Context Changes: Any changes in the operating environment, regulatory requirements, or
advancements in cybersecurity threats may require a reevaluation of risks.
3) Timeline to develop and release patches, H&abyz will review cybersecurity risks once every
two years and update them if they believe there is a threat to cybersecurity.
4) When updates occur due to new risks, legal requirements, and product changes, they can be
reflected in the field as quickly as possible, taking into account their importance and severity.
5) When a cyber issue arises in the market, the CS Team checks the situation on the spot, prepares
a customer complaint report, and delivers the contents to the research institute. In Korea, the CS-
Team communicates directly with customers on the spot or by phone, and in overseas,
communicates with customers through e-mail.
6) CISA monitoring (Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency)
H&abyz monitors the CISA catalog by cybersecurity officers within the quarterly one-time lab to
identify cyber risks associated with H&abyz's harm. After identifying cyber risks, the research
institute analyzes them to come up with measures to prevent harm. If necessary, we prepare for
software cyberattacks through design changes.
7) CVD process (Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure)
H&abyz plans to actively participate in the CVD process to monitor the Cybersecurity
Vulnerability report issued by CISA or CERT and apply the patch, update, and other mitigation

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 21 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
related to the Vulnerability if necessary.
Confirmed vulnerabilities must result in a direct report into government agencies such as the U.S.
DHS (ICS-CERT program) and then communication through the press to the public. The FDA’s
Pre and Postmarket Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices guidance documents,
published in October 2023, provide direction on key principals that are globally applicable in
practice and in cooperation with other governmental entities and processes.
8) Patching capability
H&abyz will perform a quarterly cybersecurity patch. If no cyber incidents occur, we will continue
to monitor and prepare for the next quarter’s patch.
- Production and Post-production Activities
Category Descriptions
Issue Resolution
Prior to Release
Address all issues found during system testing through a
structured problem resolution process (Software development
documents)
Release Documentation
IFU include:
1) Instructions for securely operating the software in medical
environment, assisting
end users in maintaining cybersecurity during use.
2) Clear and sufficient information about any residual risks that
could not be fully mitigated is provided to end users, ensuring
they are informed and can take appropriate precautions.
File Integrity Verifies the integrity of scripts, executables, and security
related files used with medical device.
Private Key Control Procedural and technical controls to protect code
signing private keys from unauthorized access or modification.
Security Issue Assessment
and Resolution
Ensure no software release until all security issues are
addressed, tracked, and confirmed resolved.
Completion of Activities Verify and document the completion of all applicable security
processes before release.
Secure Disposal
Guidelines
IFU with instructions for the secure disposal of medical device.
11. Interoperability functionality
Medical devices need to consider cybersecurity due to their ability to interact with other medical
or IT devices, as well as functions related to healthcare infrastructure such as networks, Electronic
Medical Records (EMR), and medical imaging systems. It is crucial to implement strong
cybersecurity measures in these interfaces to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the medical
device system. To verify interoperability functionality, we have added the MDS2 (Manufacturer
Disclosure Statement for Medical Device Security) checklist.
The MDS2 provides a standardized framework for manufacturers to disclose the security features
of their devices. It helps identify and address potential cybersecurity risks associated with
interoperability by detailing how devices handle data security, user authentication, and other
security controls. This facilitates thorough evaluation and management of cybersecurity in medical
device systems

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 22 / 24

Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
12. Update Management
It's crucial to manage updates for medical devices as part of cybersecurity to promptly address
vulnerabilities and safeguard patient safety and device integrity. Following guidelines from the
FDA and NIST, update management includes identifying, acquiring, testing, and deploying
software updates to fix vulnerabilities or enhance functionality..
12.1 Update Target
Update targets for medical device cybersecurity include software components, firmware, security
patches, and configuration files to ensure the device remains secure and functional.
1) Software Components: Operating systems, application software, and embedded software.
2) Firmware: Microcontroller firmware, device drivers, and other low-level system software.
3) Security Patches: Specific updates aimed at addressing known vulnerabilities.
4) Configuration Files: Updates to security settings and configurations.
12.2 Update process
The update can only be done by a CS Team representative on the H&abyz with permissions and
can be executed by changing the configuration file during installation.
Firmware connects to the board through the installation tool and the USB line to install the hex file
through download.
12.2.1 Preparation
Secure patches are obtained from trusted and verified sources to address specific vulnerabilities or
improvements required for the medical device. This ensures the patches are reliable and mitigate
known security risks.
- Encrypting the patch file to protect its contents during transfer, ensuring confidentiality.
- Applying a digital signature to verify the patch’s integrity and authenticity, ensuring it has not
been tampered with.
12.2.2 Update Deployment
Access the device's update interface, which may be a graphical user interface (GUI) or command-
line interface (CLI). Follow the specific instructions to initiate the update process.
- Before installing the patch, the device verifies the digital signature to ensure the patch's
authenticity and integrity.
12.2.3 Assessment of Unresolved Anomalies
H&abyz never had an Unresolved Animals issue. However, if the issue arises, it will
be resolved by analyzing and documenting it according to the quality system procedure.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 23 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
13. Patching capability
The device does not connect to the internet or external servers, and therefore does not support
remote or automatic updates.
A regular patching schedule has not been established. Instead, firmware updates are provided as
needed in response to identified issues or vulnerabilities.
Firmware patches are applied manually via a physical connection and the update file is verified for
integrity prior to installation.
All patches are managed under the company’s internal software maintenance and change control
procedures, in accordance with the secure software development lifecycle (SSDLC).
14. Security Incident Response Activities
The Security Incident Response Plan outlines a structured approach for handling cybersecurity
incidents related to HnX-R1. It has been developed in accordance with FDA and NIST guidelines,
ensuring effective management of security incidents to protect patient safety and maintain device
integrity. The plan incorporates the Incident Response Life Cycle, which includes preparation,
detection and analysis, containment, eradication and recovery, and post-incident activities, to
systematically address and mitigate cybersecurity threats.
13.1 Preparation
In order to effectively manage cybersecurity incidents, it is essential to continuously monitor.
Incident detection involves automated alerts, user reports, and proactive monitoring. An initial
analysis is conducted to assess the nature, scope, and impact of the incident, which includes data
collection and analysis. Incidents are then categorized based on severity and their impact on device
functionality and patient safety. Comprehensive documentation of all findings, including the
incident timeline, initial observations, and analysis results, is also undertaken.
13.2 Detection and Analysis
Implement continuous monitoring using IDS/IPS, SIEM systems, and other security tools to detect
anomalies and potential incidents. Identify incidents through automated alerts, user reports, and
proactive monitoring. Conduct an initial analysis to determine the nature, scope, and impact of the
incident by collecting and analyzing logs, alerts, and other relevant data. Classify the incident based
on its severity and impact on device functionality and patient safety. Document all findings,
including the incident timeline, initial observations, and analysis results, to ensure comprehensive
understanding and effective response.
13.3 Containment, Eradication, and Recovery
To effectively contain an incident, take immediate actions to limit its spread and impact. This
includes isolating affected systems or devices for short-term containment. Then, develop and
execute a long-term containment strategy to fully control the incident. Eradicate the root cause by
removing malware, closing vulnerabilities, and applying patches. During the recovery phase,
restore affected systems and devices to normal operation and validate that they are fully operational
and secure through thorough testing to ensure no residual issues remain

Technical Documentation Document No. A-CDR-HNXR1
Rev. No. 0
Cybersecurity Development Report Rev. Date August 06, 2025
Page 24 / 24
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
13.4 Post-Incident Activity
Conduct a detailed root cause analysis to identify the cause of the incident and understand how it
occurred. Implement corrective actions to address the immediate issue and mitigate its impact, and
develop preventive actions to prevent similar incidents in the future, including process
improvements, enhanced monitoring, and additional training. Document all aspects of the incident
response, including findings, actions taken, and lessons learned.
