queueId: ingest-1781569954419-17b4
sourcePath: raw/sources/DHF (인허가)/01_HAD1717MC, MG/03_설계개발 출력/10_User manual/ImfoU Console 추가/Installation_Console Manual V0.1/Installation_Console Manual Ver.0.1_ENG.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/DHF (인허가)/_combined/75bf973e881f/Installation_Console Manual Ver.0.1_ENG__75bf973e881f_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: c96c4c133db4
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: general
pilotRank: 1040

SOURCE_TEXT
DR Console Software

Installation Service Manual

(for HUMAN)

feel-DRCS ver.2

DR Console Software

User Manual

(for HUMAN)

feel-DRCS ver.2

Installation Manual

DR Console Software

feel-DRCS

Installation Service Manual Version : 0.1

Date : 2020.03.12

Table of Contents

1. Introduction 5

2. Purpose 6

2-1. Intended user and environments 7

2-2. Symbols 7

3. System requirements 8

3.1. Workstation 8

3.2. Monitor 8

3.3. Compatible related devices 9

4. Installation & Delete software 10

4.1. Installation Preparation 10

4.2. Installation of the Net Framework 11

4.3. Installation Screen 12

4.4. Selecting the Setup route 13

4.5. Selecting the route of Data Storage 15

4.6. Selecting the type of the Detector 17

4.7. Selecting the type of the Generator 18

4.8. Starting the Installation 19

4.9. Installation of the various Drivers 20

4.10. Completing the Installation 21

4.11. Setting the Detector & Generator 22

4.11.1 Detector 22

4.11.2 Generator 23

4.11.3 System 27

4.12 Removing software 29

4.12.1 Data Backup 29

4.12.2 Software Removal 29

4.13 Must-Do Setup of OS 30

4.13.1 Set up of NIC 30

4.13.2 Window Patch for DVD 35

4.13.3 Virtual Memory Setup(Essential Setup) 36

4.13.4 DEP 42

4.13.5 Removal of Sleep Mode 49

5. Trouble shooting 52

5.1. Installation Error 52

5.1.1. Case of the installation folder is existed before installation 52

5.1.2. Keylock Error 52

5.2. Execution Error 53

5.2.1. Dll Error 53

5.2.2. The feel-DRCS couldn’t be executed. 53

5.2.3. Connection error with other devices. 53

6. Appendix 55

6.1. DICOM MWL interface by Text file 55

6.1.1. Principles of interfacing 55

6.1.2. Define order argument 56

6.1.3. Method of Interfacing 57

6.1.4 Sample 57

7. Revision History 58

Introduction

feel-DRCS is the name of the digital radiography of H&abyz Co. Ltd.

feel-DRCS is the DR console or DR control software that acquires image from the DR detector like flat panel or CCD, processes rapidly for clinical application, and provides DICOM services for the integration with PACS system. This manual explains how to install and operate feel-DRCS software.

H&abyz CO.,LTD.

1F, 2-dong, 41-16, Cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-myeon, Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea www.abyzr.com

Purpose

feel-DRCS is the operation console system software integrated with various detectors or X-ray generator, based on FS-MLW (Faster Specialized Multi Layered Wavelet) technology.

feel-DRCS is the product developed for the operator, designed at the clinical hospital through many years of clinical tests, and finished by service engineers of former major DR makers.

feel-DRCS is the embedded software based on feel-TK enable to remove noise and various artifacts and much clearer body tissue. The embedded calibration function makes it possible to set the basic calibration data (offset image and gain image) for all types of detector. It can also process progressive defect by providing defect view.

feel-DRCS is distributed and being used at the clinical fields after verifying software on various detectors distributed worldwide. It is easy to use console system’s software just by changing the type of the detector which DR makers want. Integrating the X-ray’s generator operation panel, the total DR system inside the software makes it possible to control APR, AEC, Ready/Exposure with ease.

feel-DRCS is integrated with various X-ray generators, supports APR function, and provides all-in-one DR product which enables to work as existing operation panel with just one console software.

feel-DRCS does not provide the software the DR makers, but the knowhow as well as consulting services to be your best partner.

2-1. Intended user and environments

Feel-DRCS is intended to be used for radiological doctor and radiological technician for acquired general radiographic images.

So, it’s used by radiological doctor or radiological technician in hospital.

So, this system is installed by only X-ray engineer or X-ray installation engineer. It is used by radiological doctor

For proper usage and safety purposes, please ensure that only legally qualified person (Doctor, Medical Treatment Radiological Technologist, Medical Treatment X-RAY Technologist) can use this product after fully familiarize with contents of user manual

This medical device can’t use alone. So this product need to connect with X-ray detector. Sometimes, this software operates with exposure condition of X-ray Generator system.

This product is a medical device, and it should only be used as digital X-ray radiography console software for X-ray radiography at corresponding hospitals.

2-2. Symbols

Symbols

Descriptions

Refer to operation or install manual

Warning

Caution

Read Carefully

Manufacture

Date of manufacture

System requirements

Workstation

Processor: Intel Pentium Intel Duo Core/Core 2 Duo later,

Intel i5 Third generation 2.0Ghz or above

RAM : 2GB RAM

HDD: At least 40GB hard disk (if possible, over 7,200 RPM). For data backup and reliability, we recommend two separate HDDs physically-1st HDD: System and Software, 2 HDD: Image Data Storage, not separating the partition logically with just one HDD.

Network Card : 10/100/1000Mbps Ethernet Network Card

Video graphic adapter: at least over 1280 X 900 pixels, color resolution-True Color mode(no shard memory), DVI interface connector

Operating System : Windows 7 32/64 bit(at least SP1), Windows XP

 prof.(at least SP2), Windows 2000 prof.(at least SP4)

Need I/O : 1 Parallel port(synchronize Detector & X-ray Generator & Software), 1 Serial port(in case Control of X-ray generator), 1 USB port(Software Lock-Key)

Monitor

Over 19 inch (23 inch recommended)

Brightness : over 300cd/m2

Contrast Ratio : over DC 8000:1

Response time : over 5 ms

1600X1200 or 1920X1280 recommended (at least over 1280 X 900)

4:3 , 16:9. 16: 10 ratio supported.

High fidelity of grayscale and optimized luminance distribution

If you want to use high-resolution monitor, we recommend medical LCD monitor (B/W or color). There is no problem because the present software was made based on gray color when you want to use black and white monitor.

For image quality control, we recommend the below among medical monitors. It is because it needs to adjust the image at the same brightness for diagnosis after taking X-ray. Most of monitors are made according to each country’s medical standard so that there is no problem to use them.

Compatible related devices

Detector

Manufacture

Model

H&abyz

HAD1717MC, HAD1717MG

The feel-DRCS support with upper lists. If you change other device excepted with compatible devices, the feel-DRCS can’t be operated. And If you want to change other device of compatible devices, you can’t change it without installation engineer of contacted company.

In case of X-ray generator and other devices, you should have to check option of manufacture for interface with external PC.

Installation & Delete software

If you want to install on your new PC or reinstall after removing the old version, please follow the below procedures.

Installation Preparation

Install detector or generator related drives after installing this software. Insert the installation CD into CD-ROM drive or copy after making a folder in your PC hard disk. The automatic installation program works when using CD-ROM. If you do manually, go to the below folder and double-click “Setup”.

Installation CD/DVD be used by only service and installation engineer. So, don’t install except for service and installation engineer.

Do not create a folder with other languages except English or long route when using after copying the installation CD on your hard disk. It can make problems when installing the driver.

Installation of the Net Framework

If the .Net Framework 3.5 SP1 is not installed, install the .Net framework first. If it is installed already, go to the next screen.

After installing the .Net Framework, make sure to reboot your PC. The installation process continues after rebooting.

When you have installed the .Net Framework, you should reboot PC. Afterward, the installation is progressing continuously.

Installation Screen

When you get the following screen, click “Next”.

Selecting the Setup route

Specify the route of the software to be installed. Select the drive to install from the below list and click “Next”.

The list is displayed the fixed drive, not are displayed CD-ROM or Floppy disk. We recommend feel-DRCS to set up to Drive C:

When you get the above message meaning the memory space is less than 40GB, you can click “Yes” to continue. You need at least 10GB to install this software. This memory space includes created data to be added after installation.

When you get the above message meaning the same folder name exists in the drive to install, you cannot continue. For continuation, you need to change the folder name in the drive as “_bak” into a different name.

This is for the case that other software with the same name was installed and the case that the backup was not done after removing the previous installation.

Selecting the route of Data Storage

Select the route of data to be installed. From the below list, select the drive and click “Next”.

The list does display the fixed drive, not CD-ROM or Floppy disk.

You can also get the message like this.

When you get this message meaning the memory space is less than 40GB, you can click “Yes” to continue. You need at least 40GB for software storage space. You can save 1,000 image data there

You can also get the message like this.

When you get the above message meaning the same folder name exists in the drive to install, you cannot continue. For continuation, you need to change the folder name in the drive as “_bak” into a different name.

This is for the case that other software with the same name was installed and the case that the backup was not done after removing the previous installation

Selecting the type of the Detector

Select the type of the detector to use. From the below list, select the detector and click “Next”.

If you have any other detector to add, please contact our sales staff.

The available installed detectors are different by DR System Company.

Selecting the type of the Generator

Select the type of the generator to use. From the below list, select the generator and click “Next”. If you do not connect a generator, select “DO NOT CONNECT GENERATOR” at the bottom of the list.

If you have any generator to add or connect, please contact our sales staff. The contents of installation version is different according to customers that’s because this version is fixed to applicable model. If the model of generator is empty, please contact service staff

Starting the Installation

It displays all settings until now. If there is no problem, click “Next” for installation.

Installation of the various Drivers

You install the drivers to use in this process. It works automatically and never stops compulsively.

If driver is failed to set up, the message will be displayed.

In this case, firstly press the OK button to continue setting up the rest part after remembering the path of message.

The next step, press NO button in completed step of installation and don’t reboot after finishing the installation.

By manual, reboot the system after looking for the path of drive and finishing the installation

Completing the Installation

After you finish installing the software, restart your computer to display the installed software on the desktop. Please refer to how to use setup for software setup.

Setting the Detector & Generator

For detailed setup for each detector/generator, do on the below screen after rebooting or starting setup.exe in the installation folder for re modification.

Detector

 Refer to the detector instructor of the respective manufacturer.

Generator& Etc.

GENERATOR

Enter the workstation No. of the applicable bucky when setting up the generator.

If it apply to connect with AUX, Enter the applicable workstation No. Unless it apply, enter the the workstation No. of STAND or TABLE.

Comport : Select the using serial communication port that is communicated with generator.

IO Device for Trigger

Sometime, several detectors don’t support hardware trigger with X-ray generator. In this case, you should have to use software trigger(if the detector support it) with Digital IO Device. And you should have to check a check box of Enable

i. IO Device Model

Select IO device model of PCI/LPCI/LPCIe-7250 or USB-7250.

ii. Ready Delay

This time mean that the check delay time is a starting time of checking EXPOSUE button after pushing PREP(READY) button.

So, if you know a time of READY UP of generator, you type-in that time value.

ETC

i. 12 bit send

: To send the 12 bit dicom file must be set.

The rest part does not check this Because the raw data value is up to 14 bit. But PACS system is applies to process only 12 bit , always check it .

ii. Interpolation

: This option is that you can choose ON/OFF of interpolation at the time of image loading in review mode. When the images load in the review mode, the feel-drcs apply interpolation for all images. So the loading time needs more time according to image count.

But if you turn off this option, the feel-drcs does interpolation when you work as using windowing, panning, zooming.

iii. AutoCrop

: This function is available in the only exposure mode.

The image size is automatically modified by adjusting the collimator size of x-ray tube.

This function is operated only one time automatically.

Also it is possible to use the manual mode after releasing the this one.

iv. Virtual Keyboard

: It is applied to write the text and adjust the window width/level without keyboard.

v. Reject

: This function applies to cancel the examination or reject the acquired image after exposure and “Reject” mark is displayed on the image. The image data is not able to use for diagnostic purpose and does not delete the image from the saved drive. If the check is released, the image will be deleted with cancellation.

vi.Analysis

: If you want to know analysis or statistics for the used DR console station, you can use this function. This function informs you of Exposure counts, Dicom sending and rejected image counts. And you can check the rejected analysis that is done by operator.

vii. Stitching Processed Image

: Check this function when you want to stitch the processed image at the time. Unless you don’t want this, release the this function.

vii. Sensitivity

: Check this function when you want to display the Exposure Index or Exposure Indicator on the image.

viii. Use Ralco

: Check this function when using the Ralco Auto collimator.

Please, refer to the additional installation manual if you need it in detail.

x. Show Wifi UI

 When you use wireless detector, do checked this check box.

You can see the status of WIFI sensitivity and Battery.

xi. No Use Predefine shutter

Config ON/OFF about Pre-Define shutter size.

(4) DAP

i. Use DAP

Check this check box when you use DAP.

ii. Type

Select DAP Type

iii. Comport

When you connect Vacutec and iba directly, setup COM port No.

iv. Unit of DAP

Select Unit of DAP Value.

System

You can set up whether enable or disable the function of using DICOM Worklist. This default value is using wokrlist.

The viewsub can be used only in the state of integrated generator. If you use one monitor, you cannot this function and you don’t need to set the resolution of main cons

[2 monitors and integrated generator]

The main console view always use number “1” monitor. And the viewsub always use number “2” monitor.

PosX : Position X-coordinate of number 2 monitor or viewsub console

PosY : Position X-coordinate of number 2 monitor or viewsub console

You can find system width and height in display set up of Windows system.

Start > Control panel > Display > Setup TAB

This subView is optional function. If you want these functions, you call sales manager.”

The feelVIEW is special viewer for detail seeing image using Medical or high resolution monitor.

Pos X : X coordinates for opening feelVIEW windows

Pos Y : Y coordinates for opening feelVIEW windows

Width : Width of feelVIEW Monitor’ resolution

Height : Height of feelVIEW Monitor’ resolution

Rotation is set up according to detector position when image is acquired. Rotation value must be entered to clock-direction and choose one of the rotation value among 90,180 and270.

Removing software

Please follow the below steps to remove any pre-installed software.

4.12.1. Data Backup

Back up the below files and folders at the route of the installed software.

AceView.ini

AceView.mdb

Cor folder

DefaultCurve folder

Parameter Files

Other files or folders which other operators added

Software Removal

From Add or Remove Programs of the Control Panel, click “Remove” to uninstall the unnecessary software.

Must-Do Setup of OS

Set up of NIC

Internet Connection Sharing

The install engineer must setup for using two LAN card. This configuration needs for priority of PACS network and Detector network.

Check items for setup

i. The Windows XP was installed.

ii. If it installed two network interface card in the system, the one is interfaced or setup into PACS network or hospital network, another is interfaced into X-ray Detector.

If the IP address of interfaced the PACS or hospital network is 192.168.0.XXX, you should change IP address and default gateway IP address (192.168.XXX.XXX)

iii. All of NIC(LAN Card) must be interface with network cable.

Setup

i. Start -> Control Panel - > Network

ii. After check NIC(detector NIC or PACS NIC), you have to change network name, ‘PACS’ and ‘DETECTOR’. After change network name, select the PACS network and click the right button of mouse after selecting ‘properties‘.

iii. Click the advanced.

iv. Check the box in the red window and click the “OK” to finish.

After rebooting, IP is changed to 192.168.0.xxx.

It needs to change original IP address.

At the first time, IP address is 192.168.0.xxx that is connected with hospital network or PACS .

It should change it to the assigned IP from hospital.

Adapters and Binding (Window XP, 7, 8 are common)

Select the Advanced 🡺 Advanced Settings.. in Menu

(If the Menu is hidden, it will be appeared by pressing ‘Alt+N’ Key)

Select ‘pacs’ and click the button, and then confirm the changing connection order and click the ‘OK’ button

Window Patch for DVD

This update is a assistance for DVD burning in WindowXP operating system. You should update patch Microsoft patch files for using DVD burning.

* You should select a “hotfix” folder in installCD.

* First step, Install the “IMAPI_XP_SRV2003_x86.exe” file in the hotfix folder.

* Second step, Install the “WindowsXP-KB932716-v2-x86-XXX” file in the hotfix folder. You must check a file name that mated Window XP Language version. For example, if your system is WindowXP English version, you must install “WindowsXP-KB932716-v2-x86-ENU” file.

Note

 “You don’t need this step on the Windows 7 Operation system”

Virtual Memory Setup(Essential Setup)

Window XP

This setup is for the stability of management of memory and store image.

Click right button at icon of My Computer.

Click the Advanced tap.

Click the Settings in Performance

Click advanced tap

Click change button in Virtual Memory

Change or setup.

i. Select HDD.(You must setup all HDD)

ii. Check in Custom size and type in , Initial size : up to 3072, Maximum size : up to 4092.

iii. Click Setup button in paging file size for selected drive.

Please set up the all of the used drive.

If you installed the program and DCM in C drive, set up only one drive.

But if you installed program and DCM separately, set up all drive at the same way .

Window 7

DEP

DEP Setup in WindowsXP

You should change from (1) to (2)

(1) /noexecute=optin or OptOut or AlwaysOn

(2) /noexecute =AlwaysOff

1. You don’t change anything exclude upper list.

2. After modify text, you must be reboot PC.

Note

DEP Setup in Windows 7

DEP Setup in Windows 8

- This function may not work exactly.

- There are CMOS disturbs this function to use, at that case you need to set DEP release in OS.

i. System

Control Panel 🡺 System and Security 🡺 System

ii. Click the Advanced system Setting and then the System Properties window will be shown. And then move the Advanced Tab and click the Settings button of Performance

iii. When the Performance Options window show, move the Data Execution Prevention Tab and then select ‘Turn on DEP for all programs and services except those I select’

iv. Click the ‘Add…’ button and select two files as like below

feel-DRCS.exe

WBMaker.exe

v. Confirm the ‘feel-DRCS’ and ‘WBMaker’ was included in List and then click ‘Apply’ button

Removal of Sleep Mode

If you are using the detector connecting by Ethernet,

To prevent, Ethernet connection is disconnected by Sleep mode. Don’t use the Sleep mode

i. Open the ‘Control Panel’ and select ‘System and Security’.

ii. Select ‘Power Option’

iii. Check ‘Balance(recommended)’ and click ‘Change plan settings’

iv. Change ‘Never’ in ‘Put the computer to sleep’

Trouble shooting

Installation Error

Case of the installation folder is existed before installation

If the installation folder is existed, the error window occur as upper.

Delete the Feel-DRCS and DCM folders and retry installation.

Keylock Error

If the Keylock doesn’t insert to PC or has problem, feel-DCRS doesn’t execute and occur error window as upper

Check that Lock key insert to PC correctly

Check that Aladdin driver is installed correct in Device Manage

Execution Error

Dll Error

When you install feel-DRCS, ensure that selection of Detector and Model is correct.

If selection is correct, remove feel-DRCS program and reinstall again.

If the problem isn’t fixed, contact to Service engineer.

The feel-DRCS couldn’t be executed.

Execute ‘feel-DRCS.exe’ by Run as administrator

Or change the property of ‘feel-DRCS.exe’ as like below

Connection error with other devices.

Execute ‘feel-DRCS.exe’ by Run as administrator

2 error message is shown connection error. In this case, you should to contact with engineer. The engineer checks path of installed detector software.

In this case, connection error by hardware.

First, reboot detector and pc and software.

Second, re connect LAN cable from pc to Detector.

Third, contact with engineer.

Appendix

6.1. DICOM MWL interface by Text file

6.1.1. Principles of interfacing

6.1.2. Define order argument

6.1.3. Method of Interfacing

(1) Filename

- Order_Date.mwl (ex. Order_20140101123456.mwl)

(2) Store destination folder

- C:\feel-DRCS\OCS\

(3) Argument delimiter

- “,” : You can use this character in all of Text file.

(4) Study delimiter

- CR : Carriage return

(5) Unknown value

- Blank

(6) Mandatory Argument

- Patient ID/Name/Sex/Modality/Date of Study Scheduled

6.1.4. Sample

Revision History

Version

Date

Description

Rev. 0

2020-03-12

Initial Release
