queueId: ingest-1781569954376-5sz
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/01_DHF/05_HnX-P1, HnX-PB/05_설계개발 검증 및 유효성 확인/06_Risk Management/250504 파생모델 추가/A-RMR-HNX_Risk Management Report (Rev.1).docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/bbc0d717173a/A-RMR-HNX_Risk Management Report (Rev.1)__bbc0d717173a_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: c5d876cd6ba9
productSignal: HnX
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 1088

SOURCE_TEXT
Risk Management Report

Product name: Portable X-ray System

Model name: HnX-P1, HnX-PB

Name

Position

Date

Signature

Prepared by

Han, Jimin

R&D team

2025.05.04

Reviewed by

Kim, Myeongseop

R&D manager

2025.05.04

Approved by

Hur, Namkyu

Quality Management Representative

2025.05.04

Revision History

Revision No.

Rev. Date

Revision Description

0

2024.12.05

Initial

1

2025.05.04

Add variant model (HnX-PB)

Contents

1. Introduction 4

2. Normative references 5

3. Terms and Definitions 7

4. General requirements 12

5. Risk analysis 15

6. Risk Evaluation 32

7. Risk Control 33

8. Evaluation of overall residual risk 36

9. Risk management review 37

10. Risk management report 38

11. Production and post-production information 40

Introduction

This is a document for the H&abyz Co., Ltd. to establish and document a risk management report in accordance with the risk management procedure.

This plan includes the following:

the scope of the planned risk management activities, identifying and describing the medical device and the life cycle phases for which each element of the plan is applicable;

assignment of responsibilities and authorities;

requirements for review of risk management activities;

criteria for risk acceptability, based on the manufacturer's policy for determining acceptable risk, including criteria for accepting risks when the probability of occurrence of harm cannot be estimated;

a method to evaluate the overall residual risk, and criteria for acceptability of the overall residual risk based on the manufacturer's policy for determining acceptable risk;

activities for verification of the implementation and effectiveness of risk control measures; and

activities related to collection and review of relevant production and post-production information.

If the plan changes during the life cycle of the medical device, a record of the changes shall be maintained in the risk management file.

Compliance is checked by inspection of the risk management file.

Normative references

Applicable national and regional regulations

Region

Applicable national and regional regulations

European Union

Regulation (EU) 2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2017

Republic of Korea

Medical Device Act in Korea

Relevant standards

Standard

Title

EN ISO 13485:2016/A11:2021

Medical devices - Quality management systems - Requirements for regulatory purposes (ISO 13485:2016)

EN ISO 14971:2019

Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices (ISO 14971:2019)

EN ISO 24971:2020

Medical devices — Guidance on the application of ISO 14971

EN 15223-1:2021

Medical devices - Symbols to be used with information to be supplied by the manufacturer – Part 1: General requirements (ISO 15223-1:2021)

IEC 60601-1:2006/AMD1:2013

Medical electrical equipment Part 1: General requirement for basic safety and essential performance

IEC 60601-1-2:2015

Medical electrical equipment Part1-2: General requirements Section1.2 Collateral standard: Electromagnetic compatibility

IEC 60601-1-3: 2008+AMD1:2013+AMD2:2021

Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-3: General requirements for basic safety and essential performance - Collateral Standard: Radiation protection in diagnostic X-ray equipment

EN 60601-1-6:2010+A1:2015

IEC 60601-1-6:2010/AMD1:2013

Medical electrical equipment Part 1-6: General requirements for safety – Collateral standard: Usability

IEC 60601-2-28:2017

Medical electrical equipment - Part 2-28: Particular requirements for the basic safety and essential performance of X-ray tube assemblies for medical diagnosis

IEC 60601-2-54:2022

Medical electrical equipment - Part 2-54: Particular requirements for the basic safety and essential performance of X-ray equipment for radiography and radioscopy

EN 62304:2006+AM1[2015]

IEC 62304:2006+AM1[2015]

Medical device software life-cycle process

EN 62366-1:2015

IEC 62366-1:2015

Medical devices – Application of usability engineering to medical devices

EN 20417:2021

Medical devices - Information to be supplied by the manufacturer (ISO 20417:2021, Corrected version 2021-12)

ISO 15223-1:2021

Medical devices — Symbols to be used with information to be supplied by the manufacturer — Part 1: General requirements

KS X 3124 / 3126

Common EMC Test Methods for Radio Equipment,

Specific Low-Power Wireless Devices for Wireless Data Communication Systems

EN 301 489-1/-17

ElectroMagnetic Compatibility (EMC) standard for radio equipment and services;

Part 1: Common technical requirements; Harmonised Standard for ElectroMagnetic Compatibility

Part 17: Specific conditions for Broadband Data Transmission Systems; Harmonised Standard for ElectroMagnetic Compatibility

ETSI EN 300 328

Wideband transmission systems; Data transmission equipment operating in the 2.4 GHz ISM band and using wideband modulation techniques; Harmonised Standard for access to radio spectrum

FCC SUB PART C

This section of the FCC regulations covers the rules and requirements for devices that intentionally generate and emit radio frequency energy, including low-power communication devices and systems

Relevant guidelines

Guideline

Title

ISO/TR 24971:2020

Medical devices – Guidance of the application of ISO 14971

MEDDEV 2.7/1 Rev.4

Clinical Evaluation

MEDDEV 2.12/1 Rev.8

Guidelines on Medical devices Vigilance System

MEDDEV 2.12/2 Rev.2

Post Market Clinical Follow-up Studies

MDCG 2021-24

Guidance on classification of medical devices

MDCG 2020-7

Guidance on PMCF evaluation report template

MDCG 2020-8

Guidance on PMCF plan template

Radio Equipment Directive 2014/53/EU

Terms and Definitions

For the purposes of this document, the following terms and definitions apply. ISO and IEC maintain terminological databases for use in standardization at the following addresses:

– ISO Online browsing platform: available at https://www.iso.org/obp

– IEC Electropedia: available at http://www.electropedia.org/

accompanying documentation

materials accompanying a medical device (3.10) and containing information for the user or those accountable for the installation, use, maintenance, decommissioning and disposal of the medical device (3.10), particularly regarding safe use

Note 1 to entry: The accompanying documentation can consist of the instructions for use, technical description, installation manual, quick reference guide, etc.

Note 2 to entry: Accompanying documentation is not necessarily a written or printed document but could involve auditory, visual, or tactile materials and multiple media types.

benefit

positive impact or desirable outcome of the use of a medical device (3.10) on the health of an individual, or a positive impact on patient management or public health

Note 1 to entry: Benefits can include positive impact on clinical outcome, the patient's quality of life, outcomes related to diagnosis, positive impact from diagnostic devices on clinical outcomes, or positive impact on public health.

harm

injury or damage to the health of people, or damage to property or the environment

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.1]

hazard

potential source of harm (3.3)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.2]

hazardous situation

circumstance in which people, property or the environment is/are exposed to one or more hazards (3.4)

Note 1 to entry: See Annex C for an explanation of the relationship between hazard and hazardous situation.

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.3, modified - Note 1 to entry added.]

intended use / intended purpose

use for which a product, process (3.14) or service is intended according to the specifications, instructions and information provided by the manufacturer (3.9)

Note 1 to entry: The intended medical indication, patient population, part of the body or type of tissue interacted with, user profile, use environment, and operating principle are typical elements of the intended use.

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.4]

life cycle

series of all phases in the life of a medical device (3.10), from the initial conception to final decommissioning and disposal

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.51]

manufacturer

natural or legal person with responsibility for the design and/or manufacture of a medical device (3.10) with the intention of making the medical device (3.10) available for use, under his name, whether or not such a medical device (3.10) is designed and/or manufactured by that person himself or on his behalf by another person(s)

Note 1 to entry: The natural or legal person has ultimate legal responsibility for ensuring compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements for the medical device in the countries or jurisdictions where it is intended to be made available or sold, unless this responsibility is specifically imposed on another person by the Regulatory Authority (RA) within that jurisdiction.

Note 2 to entry: The manufacturer's responsibilities are described in other GHTF guidance documents. These responsibilities include meeting both pre-market requirements and post-market requirements, such as adverse event reporting and notification of corrective actions.

Note 3 to entry: "Design and/or manufacture may include specification development, production, fabrication, assembly, processing, packaging, repackaging, labelling, relabelling, sterilization, installation, or remanufacturing of a medical device; or putting a collection of devices, and possibly other products, together for a medical purpose.

Note 4 to entry: Any person who assembles or adapts a medical device that has already been supplied by another person for an individual patient, in accordance with the instructions for use, is not the manufacturer, provided the assembly or adaptation does not change the intended use of the medical device.

Note 5 to entry: Any person who changes the intended use of, o r modifies, a medical device without acting on behalf of the original manufacturer and who makes it available for use under his own name, should be considered the manufacturer of the modified medical device.

Note 6 to entry: An authorised representative, distributor or importer who only adds its own address and contact details to the medical device or the packaging, without covering or changing the existing labelling, is not considered a manufacturer.

Note 7 to entry: To the extent that an accessory is subject to the regulatory requirements of a medical device, the person responsible for the design and/or manufacture of that accessory is considered to be a manufacturer.

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.6]

medical device

instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, appliance, implant, reagent for in vitro use, software, material or other similar or related article, intended by the manufacturer (3.9) to be used, alone or in combination, for human beings, for one or more of the specific medical purpose(s) of

– diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of disease, – diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, alleviation of or compensation for an injury,

– investigation, replacement, modification, or support of the anatomy or of a physiological process,

– supporting or sustaining life,

– control of conception,

– disinfection of medical devices (3.10),

– providing information by means of in vitro examination of specimens derived from the human body,

and which does not achieve its primary intended action by pharmacological, immunological or metabolic means, in or on the human body, but which may be assisted in its function by such means

Note 1 to entry: Products which can be considered to be medical devices in some jurisdictions but not in others include:

– disinfection substances

– aids for persons with disabilities;

– devices incorporating animal and/or human tissues;

– devices for in vitro fertilization or assisted reproduction technologies.

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.7]

objective evidence

data supporting the existence or verity of something

Note 1 to entry: Objective evidence can be obtained through observation, measurement, test or by other means.

[SOURCE: ISO 9000:2015, 3.8.3, modified - Note 2 to entry deleted.]

post-production

part of the life cycle (3.8) of the medical device (3.10) after the design has been completed and the medical device (3.10) has been manufactured

EXAMPLE Transportation, storage, installation, product use, maintenance, repair, product changes, decommissioning and disposal.

procedure

specified way to carry out an activity or a process (3.14)

Note 1 to entry: Procedures can be documented or not. [SOURCE: ISO 9000:2015, 3.4.5]

process

set of interrelated or interacting activities that use inputs to deliver an intended result

Note 1 to entry: Whether the "intended result of a process is called output, product or service depends on the context of the reference.

Note 2 to entry: Inputs to a process are generally the outputs of other processes and outputs of a process are generally the inputs to other processes.

Note 3 to entry: Two or more interrelated and interacting processes in series can also be referred to as a process.

[SOURCE: ISO 9000:2015, 3.4.1, modified - Notes to entry 4, 5 and 6 are deleted.

reasonably foreseeable misuse

use of a product or system in a way not intended by the manufacturer (3.9), but which can result from readily predictable human behaviour

Note 1 to entry: Readily predictable human behaviour includes the behaviour of all types of users, e.g. lay and professional users.

Note 2 to entry: Reasonably foreseeable misuse can be intentional or unintentional.

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.8]

record

document stating results achieved or providing evidence of activities performed

Note 1 to entry: Records can be used, for example, to formalize traceability and to provide evidence of verification, preventive action and corrective action.

Note 2 to entry: Generally records need not be under revision control.

[SOURCE: ISO 9000:2015, 3.8.10]

residual risk

risk remaining after risk control (3.21) measures have been implemented

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019,3.9]

risk

combination of the probability of occurrence of harm (3.3) and the severity (3.27) of that harm (3.3)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.10, modified — Note 1 to entry deleted.]

risk analysis

systematic use of available information to identify hazards (3.4) and to estimate the risk (3.18)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.11]

risk assessment

overall process (3.14) comprising a risk analysis (3.19) and a risk evaluation (3.20)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 51:2014, 3.11]

risk control

process (3.14) in which decisions are made and measures implemented by which risks (3.18) are reduced to, or maintained within, specified levels

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.12]

risk estimation

process (3.14) used to assign values to the probability of occurrence of harm (3.3) and the severity (3.27) of that harm

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.13]

risk evaluation

process (3.14) of comparing the estimated risk (3.18) against given risk (3.18) criteria to determine the acceptability of the risk (3.18)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.14]

risk management

systematic application of management policies, procedures (3.13) and practices to the tasks of analysing, evaluating, controlling and monitoring risk (3.18)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.15]

risk management file

set of records (3.16) and other documents that are produced by risk management (3.24)

safety

freedom from unacceptable risk (3.18)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.10]

severity

measure of the possible consequences of a hazard (3.4)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.17]

state of the art

developed stage of technical capability at a given time as regards products, processes (3.14) and services, based on the relevant consolidated findings of science, technology and experience

Note 1 to entry: The state of the art embodies whatis currently and generally accepted as good practice in technology and medicine. The state of the art does not necessarily imply the most technologically advanced solution. The state of the art described here is sometimes referred to as the "generally acknowledged state of the art".

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.18]

top management

person or group of people who directs and controls a manufacturer (3.9) at the highest level

[SOURCE: ISO 9000:2015, 3.1.1, modified — "An organization" replaced by "a manufacturer", Notes to entry deleted.]

use error

user action or lack of user action while using the medical device (3.10) that leads to a different result than that intended by the manufacturer (3.9) or expected by the user

Note 1 to entry: Use error includes the inability of the user to complete a task.

Note 2 to entry: Use errors can result from a mismatch between the characteristics of the user, user interface, task, or use environment.

Note 3 to entry: Users might be aware or unaware that a use error has occurred.

Note 4 to entry: An unexpected physiological response of the patient is not by itself considered use error.

Note 5 to entry: A malfunction of a medical device that causes an unexpected result is not considered a use error.

[SOURCE: IEC 62366-1:2015, 3.21, modified - Note 6 to entry deleted.]

Verification

confirmation, through the provision of objective evidence (3.11), that specified requirements have been fulfilled

Note 1 to entry: The objective evidence needed for a verification can be the result of an inspection or of other forms of determination such as performing alternative calculations or reviewing documents.

Note 2 to entry: The activities carried out for verification are sometimes called a qualification process.

Note 3 to entry: The word "verified" is used to designate the corresponding status.

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.19]

General requirements

General description of the product

General details

This Portable X-ray System (Model: HnX-P1, HnX-PB) consists of an LCD display with up and down soft-keys for controlling kV, an X-ray generator (line-powered transformer), an X-ray tube assembly, a collimator and a cart. It can also use a stand instead of a cart. The Portable X-ray System is used with a film-cassette or flat-panel detector.

This device is a battery-powered portable X-ray System, designed and manufactured by H&abyz.

Compared with traditional X-ray products, this device has exquisite structure, compact design, light weight and easy operation.

The major components of the X-ray main unit include handle, enclosure, main control panel, system control board, high-voltage tank, inverter, collimator (beam limiter), and system control software running on the system control board. The system control software is for real-time interaction and control with various circuit modules inside the X-ray generator. The software responds to user operations on the control panel. The user can adjust and control the kV and mAs parameters, and the software will display the parameters or directly load the APR parameters. The software loads the control data from X-ray output into the high-voltage generation control circuit of the system control board, and control the high-voltage tank to generate high-voltage to excite the X-ray tube inside to emit X-rays, control the switch of the collimator, and monitor the working status of the device, and control the display of the status indicators.

The system is for X-ray imaging and diagnosis in facilities with portable or fixing sites.

This Portable X-ray System is not intended for mammography.

The device can be used with an X-ray flat panel detector, a computer for receiving and detecting signal results and an image processing software. This portable X-ray System is designed for handheld or stand-mounted imaging. Model HnX-P1 & HnX-PB can be configured to an optional portable stand that complies with IEC 60601- 1 safety standard. The recommended maximum load that the stand can safely carry is 6kgs to ensure the mechanical stability and effectiveness of the device.

The cybersecurity risk of the HnX-P1 & HnX-PB have been addressed to assure that no new or increased cybersecurity risks were introduced as a part of device risk analysis. These risks are defined as sequence of events leading to a hazardous situation, and the control for their risks were treated and implemented as proposed in the risk analysis (e.g., requirements, verification).

The variant model HnX-PB has only changed the exterior design compared to the existing model HnX-P1, and the interface, exterior material, internal structure, PCB, software, etc. are all the same.

Therefore, no additional risk management will be conducted for the addition of the variant model (HnX-PB).

Product Name

Portable X-ray system

Model Name

HnX-P1, HnX-PB

Classification

Class llb

Expected service life

Approximately 7 years

Intended Purpose

This is a portable X-ray system with following limitations of use : The device may be used for handheld diagnostic imaging of body extremities. The device may be used for stand mounted diagnostic imaging of head, abdomen, or extremities. The device may be used for stand mounted imaging of the chest when used without a grid.

- Not to be used on bariatric patients, unless imaging body extremities

- Not for mammography use

- This device is not intended to replace a stationary radiographic system, which may be required for full optimization of image quality and radiation exposure for different exam types.

※ Please use caution. This device is difficult to shoot with pediatric.

Operating Principle

A device that is built by generating high voltage and adding it to both ends of the tube, heating the bulb filament, shooting the electron cloud of the filament o the target of the tube to generate X-rays, and the irradiation range of X-ray is limited by the collimator.

Operating steps

The patient is prepped and provided some form of radiation shielding.

The unit is positioned around the patient, who is asked to remain motionless while the image is being taken.

The operator takes the image by activating the X-ray beam using an exposure switch.

The operator repositions the patient or unit if needed. Multiple images may be taken.

Use and maintenance User(s):

Surgeon; physician; radiographer or radiology technician; other medical staff

Maintenance: Biomedical engineering staff and/ or service contract with the manufacturer or third-party organization

Training: Initial training by manufacturer, operator’s manuals, user’s guide

Environment of use Settings of use:

Intensive and critical care units; operating and emergency rooms; some units designed for private home, clinic, correctional facility, military field hospital radiography; physician office.

Overview of risk management activities

Risk analysis

Risk analysis process

The risk analysis process consists of the following steps, which are explained in further detail in the next subclauses:

1) description of the intended use of the medical device and reasonably foreseeable misuse;

2) identification of the characteristics of the medical device that are related to safety;

3) identification of hazards and hazardous situations associated with the medical device;

4) estimation of risks for each hazardous situation

Please refer to Risk Management FMEA Table (Doc. No. A-FMEA-HNX).

Intended purpose and reasonably foreseeable misuse

Factors to consider in determining the intended purpose

Intended usePlease refer to Product Description (Doc. No. A-EUTD-PD-HNX).

The intended medical indicationPlease refer to Product Description (Doc. No. A-EUTD-PD-HNX).

Patient populationPlease refer to Product Description (Doc. No. A-EUTD-PD-HNX).

Part of the body or type of tissue interacted withPlease refer to Product Description (Doc. No. A-EUTD-PD-HNX).

User profile (intended user)Please refer to Product Description (Doc. No A-EUTD-PD-HNX).

Reasonably foreseeable misuse

Might be misused by maintenance and calibration error of operator.

User misuse may occur depending on the manufacturer's maintenance responsibilities and modes.

We identified reasonably foreseeable misuse through usability engineering process. Refer to Usability Engineering Report (Doc. No. A-UER-HNX)

Identification of characteristics related to safety

Identification of characteristics related to the safety of ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A Questions

Questions (ISO/TR 24971:2020 Annex A)

A or

N/A

Characteristics related to the safety

A.2.1. What is the intended use and how is the medical device to be used?

A

The portable X-ray System is a medical device intended for use by a qualified/trained physician or technician for the purpose of acquiring X-ray images of the desired parts of patient’s anatomy (including head, cervical spine, chest, abdomen, lumbar spine, pelvis and extremities).

This system is not intended for mammography.

What is the medical device’s role relative to:

diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of disease,

A

• The portable X-ray System should be operated only by or under the supervision of a properly trained and qualified professional.

• It is designed for radiographic uses only and not intended for fluoroscopic use or other associated applications.

• The device does not apply to mammography and dental radiography.

• It is prohibited for the same patient (especially children) to receive high frequency imaging of the device for a long period.

• Pregnant women undergoing X-ray exams may result in fetal injury.

 Clinician’s decision shall be made by weighing the condition of patients.

• It should be used for the diagnosis purpose and is not intended for therapy of any kind.

diagnosis, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of or compensation for an injury,

investigation, replacement, modification or support of anatomy or a physiological process, or

N/A

control of conception?

N/A

what are the indications for use?

(e.g. patient population, user profile, use environment)?

A

The portable X-ray System is a medical device intended for use by a qualified/trained physician or technician for the purpose of acquiring X-ray images of the desired parts of patient’s anatomy (including head, cervical spine, chest, abdomen, lumbar spine, pelvis and extremities).

This system is not intended for mammography.

what are the contra-indications?

A

• The device does not apply to mammography and dental radiography.

• It is prohibited for the same patient (especially children) to receive high frequency imaging of the device for a long period.

• Pregnant women undergoing X-ray exams may result in fetal injury.

 Clinician’s decision shall be made by weighing the condition of patients.

• It should be used for the diagnosis purpose and is not intended for therapy of any kind.

does the medical device sustain or support life?

N/A

The portable X-ray System is not a life supporting device.

is special intervention necessary in the case of failure of the medical device?

N/A

In case of failure, troubleshooted by the manufacturer.

can the performance of the medical device be impacted in the event of a security breach (performance degradation or loss of availability)?

A

The event of a security breach may affect the performance of the medical device.

can unauthorized access, unauthorized activities, or loss of data affect the medical device safety?

A

Unauthorized access, unauthorized operation, or data loss may affect the performance of the medical device.

A.2.2. Is the medical device intended to be implanted?

N/A

Not intended to be implanted.

the location of implantation

the characteristics of the patient population

age weight, physical activity

the effect of ageing on implant performance

the expected lifetime of the implant

the reversibility of the implantation.

the implant can be modified or configured while implanted

the access connection to perform this modification or configuration (e.g, physical access point or wireless connection to the implanted medical device).

A.2.3 Is the medical device intended to be in contact with the patient or other persons?

N/A

Portable X-ray System is not intended to be in contact with the patient

the nature of the intended contact - surface contact, invasive contact, or implantation

the period and frequency of contact.

A.2.4 What materials or components are utilized in the medical device or are used with, or are in contact with, the medical device?

N/A

This product is not used with other materials or components.

compatibility with relevant substances;

compatibility with tissues or body fluids;

whether characteristics relevant to safety are known;

is the medical device manufactured utilizing materials of animal origin?

A.2.5 Is energy delivered to or extracted from the patient?

A

Portable X-ray System generates x-ray and transfers to patient.

the type of energy transferred;

A

X-RAY

its control, quality, quantity, intensity and duration;

A

The maximum output of X-ray generator is 720W

The X-ray Tube output voltage of generator is 50~90Kv

The X-ray Tube output current and mAs (current x sec.) of generator are:

kV

mA

mAs

50~70

10

0.4~20

71~90

8

0.4~16

whether energy levels are higher than those currently used for similar devices.

N/A

The energy levels of HnX-P1 are similar to other products

A.2.6 Are substances delivered to or extracted from the patient?

N/A

No substances delivered to and/or extracted from the patient.

whether the substance is delivered or extracted

whether it is a single substance or range of substance

the maximum and minimum transfer rates and control thereof.

A.2.7 Are biological materials processed by the medical device for subsequent re-use, transfusion or transplantation? Factors that should be considered include the type of process and substance(s) processed (e.g. autotransfusion, dialysis, blood component or cell therapy processing).

N/A

This product does not process biological materials.

A.2.8 Is the medical device supplied sterile or intended to be sterilized by the user, or are other microbiological controls applicable? Factors that should be considered include

N/A

This product dose not be sterilized.

whether the medical device is intended for single use or re-use packaging

shelf-life issues

limitation on the number of re-use cycles

method of product sterilization

the impact of other sterilization methods not intended by the manufacturer.

A.2.9 Is the medical device intended to be routinely cleaned and disinfected by the user?

A

Portable X-ray System is required to be routinely cleaned using soft, dry cloth after using the product.

the types of cleaning

disinfecting agents to be used and any limitations on the number of cleaning cycles.

can the design of the medical device influence the effectiveness of routine cleaning and disinfection?

the effect of cleaning and disinfecting agents on the safety or performance of the medical device.

A.2.10 Is the medical device intended to modify the patient environment?

N/A

It is not intended to modify the patient environment.

But it is medical device for radiography diagnostic.

temperature; humidity;

atmospheric gas composition; pressure; light.

A.2.11 Are measurements taken?

N/A

Portable X-ray System is not a medical device used for measuring.

the variables measured and the accuracy and the precision of the measurement result:

whether the measurement apparatus or data can be compromised

The need for calibration and maintenance

A.2.12 Is the medical device interpretative?

N/A

Portable X-ray System is not a medical device used for interpreting.

whether conclusions are presented by the medical device from input or acquired data,

the algorithms used, and confidence limits.

Special attention should be given to unintended applications of the data or algorithm.

unauthorized manipulation or changes to algorithms and data

A.2.13 Is the medical device intended for use in conjunction with other medical devices, medicines or other medical technologies?

N/A

Not intended for use in conjunction with other medical devices, medicines, or other medical technologies.

identifying any other medical devices, medicines or other medical technologies that can be involved 

the potential problem associated with interactions

(such as the medical device impacting the performance of other medical devices)

whether the patient follows the instructions for the therapy.

A.2.14 Are there unwanted outputs of energy or substances?

A

This product can generate unwanted output of energy.

Energy-related factors that should be considered include noise and vibration, heat, radiation (including ionizing, non-ionizing, and ultraviolet/visible/infrared radiation), contact temperatures, leakage currents, and electric or magnetic fields.

A

This product can generate unwanted output of energy by Magnetic of leakage current and electromagnetic etc.

Also, because our product was used integrated with x-ray generator, can generate scattered x-ray. But the product was passed Safety and EMC test.

Substance-related factors that should be considered include substances used in manufacturing, cleaning or testing having unwanted physiological effects if they remain in the product.

N/A

Other substance-related factors that should be considered include discharge of chemicals, waste products, and body fluids.

N/A

A.2.15 Is the medical device susceptible to environmental influences?

A

This product is susceptible to environmental influences.

the operational, transport and storage environment. These include light, temperature, humidity, vibrations, spillage, susceptibility to variations in power and cooling supplies, and electromagnetic interference.

A

Operating Environment

- Temperature : 10 ℃ to 35℃

- Humidity : 30 % to 75 % RH (non-condensing)

- Air Pressure : 700 hPa to 1060 hPa

Storage and Transit Environment

- Temperature : -10 ℃ to 50℃

- Humidity : 10 % to 80% RH (non-condensing)

- Air Pressure : 500 hPa to 1060 hPa

A.2.16 Does the medical device influence the environment?

A

Electro Magnetic Interference

the effects on power and cooling supplies;

N/A

emission of toxic materials;

N/A

There is no connect with toxic chemical.

the generation of electromagnetic disturbance.

A

Electromagnetic waves can generate because of product which uses electricity.

A.2.17 Does the medical device require consumables or accessories?

A

The hand switch and battery are included to product as component

The product components are as follows.

 - Hand-switch

 - Battery(It is inserted inside the main body.)

 - AC/DC Adapter

 - Power cable

specifications for such consumables or accessories

A

Battery spec is;

- Cell : 29.6V/1,500mAh, Li-Polymer

- Output Voltage : 25.6~33.6VDC

- Output Current : 50A @ (2sec)

- Control Circuit : BMS

- Charging Time : 2hr

any restrictions placed upon users in their selection of these.

A

When using battery, always use the battery provided by H&abyz.

A.2.18 Is maintenance or calibration necessary?

A

Our product need maintenance or calibration in case of necessity.

whether maintenance or calibration are to be carried out by the users or by a specialist;

are special substances or equipment necessary for proper maintenance or calibration?

traceability of the calibrator values to a higher order reference

how to determine when maintenance or recalibration is needed

how to verify that calibration is (still) acceptable

A.2.19 Does the medical device contain software?

A

The product contains software.

whether software is intended to be installed, verified, modified or exchanged by the operator or user or by a specialist, and the authenticity of a software update.

A.2.20 Does the medical device allow access to information?

A

Portable X-ray System can be connected to the PC via Bluetooth

accessible Ethernet ports, USB ports, serial ports, and removable hard drives.

A.2.21 Does the medical device store data critical to patient care?

N/A

This product does not store data.

the possibility of the data being modified or corrupted

unauthorized access to the data, and the consequences for the patients.

A.2.22 Does the medical device have a restricted shelf-life?

N/A

This product hasn’t shelf-life because of a non-sterilized device

the medical device can deteriorate over time

the impact of storage conditions and primary packaging

the communication of the expiry date (by labelling or an indicator)

possibility of use after the expiry date

the disposal of expired medical devices

A.2.23 Are there any delayed or long-term use effects?

A

Damage of the label, degeneration caused by long time use of product

ergonomic and cumulative effects.

(Examples could include pumps for saline that corrode over time, mechanical fatigue, loosening of straps and attachments, vibration effects, labels that wear or fall off, long-term material degradation.)

A.2.24 To what mechanical forces will the medical device be subjected?

N/A

There are no mechanical forces

The forces to which the medical device will be subjected are under the control of the user or controlled by interaction with other persons.

A.2.25 What determines the lifetime of the medical device?

A

Electrolytic condenser included in power supply determines life.

battery depletion, deterioration of materials and failure of components due to ageing, wear, fatigue or repeated use. The availability of spare parts should be considered as well?

A.2.26 Is the medical device intended for single use?

N/A

This product is not intended for single use.

whether the medical device self-destructs after use

whether it is obvious to the user that the medical device has been used.

A.2.27 Is safe decommissioning or disposal of the medical device necessary?

Factors that should be considered include:

A

When do disposal, the product should disposal according to decided method by hospital.

The waste products that are generated during the disposal of the medical device itself, and the proper sanitization (removal) of all sensitive data on the medical device. For example, does it contain hazardous material (e.g, toxic chemical or biological agent), or is the material recyclable? If the medical device stores data, proper handling and security of the stored data should be considered, including data removal and retention.

A.2.28 Does installation or use of the medical device require special training or special skills?

A

The product should be installed by professional engineer.

the complexity and novelty of the medical device and the knowledge, skills and ability of the persons installing, maintaining or using the medical device. This can include training, education, competence assessment, certification or qualification.

A.2.29 How will information for safety be provided?

A

whether information will be provided directly to the end user by the manufacturer or will it involve the participation of third parties such as installers, care providers, health care professionals, laboratory directors or pharmacists and whether this will have implications for training

A

Caution and use method were recorded in user manual and technical manual.

commissioning and transferring to the end user and whether it is likely/possible that installation can be carried out by people without the necessary skills

based on the type and expected lifetime of the medical device, whether re-training or re-certification of users or service personnel would be indicated

A

The product should be installed by professional engineer.

Operator and engineers need to re-training.

A.2.30 Are new manufacturing processes established or introduced?

N/A

New manufacturing process is no necessity.

the application of new or innovative technology and changes in the scale of production. (This can also involve changes in contract manufacturing, suppliers and vendors.)

A.2.31 Is successful application of the medical device dependent on the usability of the user interface?

A

User interface have specified design features.

A.2.31.1 Can the user interface design features contribute to use error?

A

User interface such as potential use error factor etc. should be prepared exactly in design step.

control and indicators

symbols used

ergonomic features

physical design and layout

hierarchy of operation

menus for software-driven medical devices

visibility of warnings

audibility of alarms

standardisation of colour coding

A.2.31.2 Is the medical device used in an environment where distractions can cause use error?

N/A

The product shall be used in the intensive and critical care units; operating and emergency rooms;

clinic, correctional facility, military field hospital radiography; physician office.

It is used in a place that maintains proper temperature and humidity, and in a quiet room, and is not affected by usage errors in a distracting environment.

the consequence of use error

whether the distractions are commonplace

whether the user can be disturbed by an infrequent distraction

whether repetitive stress can reduce the user’s awareness or attention.

A.2.31.3 Does the medical device have connecting parts or accessories?

A

The battery is included to product as component.

the possibility of wrong connections

similarity to other products’ connections

connection force

feedback on connection integrity

over- and under tightening

A.2.31.4 Does the medical device have a control interface?

A

The product is controlled by software program.

spacing, coding, grouping, mapping

mode of feedback

blunders, slips, control differentiation

visibility, direction of activation or change, discrete, reversibility

A.2.31.5 Does the medical device display information?

A

Portable X-ray System displays information with 4 inch LCD.

visibility in various environments, orientation, the visual capabilities of the user

populations and perspectives

clarity of the presented information, units, colour coding, and the accessibility of critical information.

A.2.31.6 Is the medical device controlled by a menu?

A

Portable X-ray System is controlled with buttons.

Explains how to operate in the user manual.

complexity and number of layers, awareness of state, location of settings, navigation method, number of steps per action

sequence clarity and memorization problems, and importance of control function relative to its accessibility and the impact of deviating from specified operating procedures

A.2.31.7 Is the successful use of the medical device dependent on a user’s knowledge, skills and abilities?

A

Education: at least have the ability to read the manual

Knowledge: User must be read and understand user manual.

Language understanding: Language displayed on the label or user manual.

Experience: Radiologist

the (intended) users, their mental and physical abilities, skill and training

the use environment, ergonomic aspects, installation requirement

the capability of intended users to control or influence the use of the medical device

the personal characteristics of intended users that can affect their ability to successfully interact with the medical device

A.2.31.8 Will the medical device be used by persons with specific needs?

N/A

The product isn’t medical device which was used by persons with special needs.

users with special characteristics, such as disabled persons, the elderly and children, who might need assistance by another person to enable the use of a medical device

users having wide-ranging skill levels and differing cultural backgrounds and expectations that could lead to differences in what is considered appropriate application of the medical device.

A.2.31.9 Can the user interface be used to initiate user actions?

A

Portable X-ray System provides user interface through buttons and LCD.

whether the user interface allows the user to enter an operation mode with restricted access (e.g. for maintenance or special use)

the possibility of use error and thereby the associated risks, and whether the user becomes aware of having entered such operation mode.

A.2.32 Does the medical device use an alarm system?

N/A

The product doesn’t use an alarm system.

the risk of false alarms, missing alarms, disconnected alarm systems

unreliable remote alarm systems, and user’s ability of understanding how the alarm system works. Guidance for alarm

A.2.33 In what way(s) might the medical device be deliberately misused (deliberately or not)?

A

Might be misused by maintenance and calibration error of operator.

User misuse may occur depending on the manufacturer's maintenance responsibilities and modes.

incorrect use of connectors

disabling safety features or alarms

neglect of manufacturer's recommended maintenance.

unauthorized access to the medical device or to medical device functions

A.2.34 Is the medical device intended to be mobile or portable?

A

Intended to be designed portable.

the need for grips, handles, wheels or brakes,

N/A

the need for mechanical stability and durability.

A

Falling occurs while moving this product.

Damage caused by the patient's load.

A.2.35 Does the use of the medical device depend on essential performance?

N/A

Because the product is not life-supporting device etc., doesn’t the use of the medical device depend on essential performance.

the characteristics of the output of life supporting medical devices or the operation of an alarm.

A.2.36 Does the medical device have a degree of autonomy?

N/A

This product has no autonomy.

awareness of the user when the medical device with a degree of autonomy generates an error, alarm or failure

awareness of the user when intervention in an autonomously performed action is required

the ability of the user to intervene in or to abort an action that is performed autonomously

the ability of the user to select and perform proper corrective actions.

A.2.37 Does the medical device produce an output that is used as an input in determining clinical action?

N/A

This product is not an in vitro diagnostic medical device.

whether incorrect or delayed outputs can result in direct or indirect risks to patients, e.g. an incorrect diagnosis resulting in delayed or omitted therapy for a patient.

Identification of characteristics related to the safety of EN ISO 60601-1, ed.3.1

IEC 60601-1 Clause

Subject

A or N/A

Results or Comments

4.2

Risk Management Process for ME Equipment or ME Systems

A

See Risk Management Report.

4.3

Essential performance

A

Accuracy of X-ray Radiation

4.4

Expected service life

A

The estimated product lifetime is up to 7 years under appropriate regular inspection and maintenance.

4.5

Alternative risk control measures or test methods for ME Equipment or ME Systems

N/A

We are not applying the alternative risk control measure or test methods for ME Equipment or ME systems.

4.6

ME Equipment or ME System parts that contact the patient

N/A

This product is not intended for patient contact.

4.7

Single Fault Condition for ME Equipment

A

1. Clause 8.1 b Fundamental rule of protection against electric shock.

2. Clause 13.2.2: Electrical single fault condition. (Clause 8.1 b)

3. Clause 13.2.12: Failure of parts that might result in a mechanical hazard. (Clause 9)

4.8

Components of ME Equipment

N/A

The is designed using only certified products.

4.9

Use of components with high-integrity characteristics in ME Equipment

N/A

Not use of components with high integrity characteristics in ME Equipment.

5.1

Type Tests

N/A

No combination of simultaneous independent faults has been found during risk analysis.

7.2.2

Identification

A

Portable X-ray System has the USB cable.

7.2.13

Physiological effects

(Safety signs and warning statements)

A

this device causes physiological effects which can be harm to the patient or operator.

Overexposure to X-RAY may cause physiological effects.

7.2.17

Protective packaging

A

This device has protective packaging.

Damage may occur when transporting the Portable X-ray System product without the packaging box.

Scratches, damage, or deformation due to external shock

Damage to components and deterioration of function due to vibration

Corrosion, discoloration, and mold development due to moisture infiltration

Deformation and deterioration of function due to temperature changes

7.3.3

Batteries

A

Portable X-ray System has the rechargeable battery.

7.3.7

Supply terminals

N/A

Portable X-ray System is not permanently installed equipment.

7.4.2

Control devices

A

Portable X-ray System controls the X-ray output.

7.5

Safety signs

A

Portable X-ray System use safety sign.

7.9.2.4

Electrical power source

A

Portable X-ray System has the rechargeable battery and adapter.

7.9.3.2

Replacement of fuses, power supply cords and other parts

A

Portable X-ray System has a replaceable part.

8.1 b)

Fundamental rule of protection against electric shock - accidental detachment of conductors and connectors

A

Connector and Conductor are fixed.

8.5.2.2

Type B applied parts

N/A

Portable X-ray System has no applied part

8.5.2.3

Patient Leads or Patient cables

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not have the patient lead or patient cable.

8.6.3

Protective earthing of moving parts

N/A

HnX-P1 does not have moving parts.

8.8.4.1

Mechanical strength and resistance to heat

A

The outer case uses PC material that satisfies the flame retardant grade (V-0, 80 °C).

8.10.1

Fixing of components

A

Internal of the product, components that comprise the PCBs, AC-DC transformers, and AC filters are fixed.

9.2.1

Mechanical HAZARDs associated with moving parts - General

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not have moving parts.

9.2.4

Emergency stopping devices

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not have moving part and emergency stop.

9.2.5

Release of patient

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not restrain the patient.

9.5.1

Protective means

A

Operators and patients should always wear a lead apron and any other protective gear as required by law

9.6.1

Acoustic energy - General

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not use acoustic energy.

9.6.2.2

Infrasound and ultrasound energy

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not use infrasound and ultrasound energy.

9.7.2

Pneumatic and hydraulic parts

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not use pneumatic and hydraulic parts.

9.7.7

Pressure-relief device

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not use pressure.

9.8.1

Mechanical Hazards associated with support systems - General

N/A

Portable X-ray System has no support system.

9.8.2

Tensile safety factor

N/A

Portable X-ray System has no support system.

9.8.3.1

Strength of patient or operator support or suspension systems - General

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not support or suspend the patient or operator.

9.8.5

Systems without mechanical protective devices

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not support or suspend the patient or operator.

10.1.2

ME equipment intended to produce diagnostic or therapeutic X-radiation

A

This device do produce the x-radiation for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes.

Minor radiation scattering may occur while X-rays are being exposed.

10.2

Alpha, beta, gamma, neutron and other particle radiation

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not produce the alpha, beta, gamma, neutron or other particle radiation.

10.5

Other visible electromagnetic radiation

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not produce visible radiation, as defined in section 10.5 of 60601-1.

10.6

Infrared radiation

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not emit infrared radiation.

10.7

Ultraviolet radiation

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not emit ultraviolet radiation.

11.1.1

Maximum temperature during normal use

A

The heat generated in the battery and mono-tank

The maximum operating temperature of this device is limited to 60 degrees.

The device does not operate properly

11.1.2.1

Applied parts intended to supply heat to a patient

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not intend to supply heat to a patient.

11.1.2.2

Applied parts not intended to supply heat to a patient

(IEC 60601-1, Table 24)

N/A

Portable X-ray System shall exceed 35℃ in normal or single fault condition, but it is still available for extra use under normal usage conditions.

11.1.3 e)

Measurements - Test /*-/criteria

A

Tube voltage test

±10% or less of set value

Tube Current test

±10% or less of set value

Exposure time accuracy test

±10% or less of set value

mAs test

±10% or less of set value/

If the output value of device exceeds the required performance standards, the intended image cannot be obtained./

11.2.2.1

Risk of fire in an oxygen rich environment

N/A

Portable X-ray System is not used in an oxygen rich environment.

11.3

Constructional requirements for fire enclosures of ME equipment

N/A

The enclosure material is a plastic. It designed to satisfy the flame-retardant grade.

11.5

ME equipment and ME systems intended for use in conjunction with flammable agents

N/A

Portable X-ray System is not intended for use in conjunction with flammable agents.

11.6.3

Spillage on ME equipment and ME system

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not utilize the liquid.Portable X-ray System is not used in the environment which has a risk of spillage on the equipment.

11.6.7

Sterilization of ME equipment and ME systems

N/A

Portable X-ray System is not intended to be sterilized.

11.6.8

Compatibility with substances used with the ME equipment

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not have the substances which is used with the ME equipment.

12.1

Accuracy of controls and instruments

A

Setting the X-RAY dose.

12.4.1

Intentional exceeding of safety limits

N/A

Portable X-ray System has no risk associated with the intentional exceeding of safety limits.

12.4.2

Indication relevant to safety

A

This device has indications for x-ray emissions.

12.4.3

Accidental selection of excessive output values

N/A

Portable X-ray System is not multi-purpose unit.

12.4.4

Incorrect output

A

This device has indications for x-ray emissions.

12.4.5.3

Radiotherapy equipment

N/A

Portable X-ray System is not radiotherapy equipment.

12.4.5.4

Other ME equipment producing diagnostic or therapeutic radiation

A

This device has indications for x-ray emissions.

12.4.6

Diagnostic or therapeutic acoustic pressure

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not produce diagnostic or therapeutic acoustic pressure.

13.2.6

Leakage of liquid

A

This device contains insulating oil inside the mono tank

14.1

Programmable electrical medical systems – General

A

S/W error occurs.

14.6.1

Identification of known and foreseeable hazards

A

S/W error occurs.

14.6.2

Risk control

A

S / W risk control implementation.

14.7

Requirement specification

A

SRS Description

14.8

Architecture

A

S / W includes a structural stability.

14.10

Verification

A

S/W Design

14.11

PEMS validation

A

S/W validation responsible Settings.

14.13

PEMS intended to be incorporated into an IT-Network

N/A

Portable X-ray System is not connected to the IT network.

15.4.1

Construction of connectors

A

Portable X-ray System have the electrical connection terminal and connector.

15.4.2.1 a)

Temperature and overload control devices - Application

N/A

Portable X-ray System has no thermal cut-out and over-current release.

15.4.2.1 c)

Temperature and overload control devices - Application

N/A

Portable X-ray System has no thermal cut-out and over-current release.

15.4.2.1 d)

Temperature and overload control devices - Application

N/A

Portable X-ray System has no thermal cut-out and over-current release.

15.4.2.1 h)

Temperature and overload control devices - Application

N/A

Portable X-ray System has no thermal cut-out and over-current release.

15.4.3.1

Housing

A

Portable X-ray System has a battery.

15.4.3.2

Connection

A

Portable X-ray System has a battery.

15.4.3.3

Protection against overcharging

A

Portable X-ray System has a battery.

15.4.4

Indicators

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not include the non-luminous hitter.

15.4.5

Pre-set controls

N/A

Portable X-ray System does not have a pre-set control.

16.1

General Requirements for ME Systems

N/A

HnX-P1 & HnX-PB are not ME System.

16.9.1

Connection terminals and connectors

N/A

HnX-P1 & HnX-PB are not ME System.

17

Electromagnetic compatibility of ME equipment and ME systems

A

This equipment generates electromagnetic wave and uses in environment generated electromagnetic wave.

Identification of characteristics related to the safety of EN 60601-1-3, ed.2.2

IEC 60601-1-3 Clause

Subject

A or N/A

Results or Comments

6.3.2

X-ray radiation quality

N/A

Addressed by particular standard.

6.4.3

Indication of loading conditions and operating modes

N/A

Addressed by particular standard.

6.5

Automatic control system

N/A

Addressed by particular standard.

6.7.2

System performance

A

Addressed by particular standard.

6.7.3

Nominal focal spot value

A

The focal spot value specified.

6.7.4

Radiation detector or X-ray receiver

N/A

Addressed by particular standard.

7.2

Radiation quality

N/A

Addressed by particular standard.

8.1

Limitation of the X-ray beam size and the relationship between the X-ray field and the receiving area

N/A

Addressed by particular standard.

8.5.3

Alignment between the X-ray field and the effective receiving area

N/A

Addressed by particular standard.

9.1

Focus-to-skin distance (FSD)

N/A

Addressed by particular standard.

10.1

Attenuation of the X-ray beam between the patient and the X-ray receiver

N/A

Addressed by particular standard.

11

Protection against residual radiation

N/A

Addressed by particular standard.

12.1

Protection against Leakage Radiation

A

Unnecessary exposure may occurs due to leakage radiation.

13.2

Control of the X-ray equipment from the protected area

N/A

No protected area

13.3

Protection by distance

N/A

Not applicable

Identification of hazards and hazardous situations

The manufacturer shall identify and document known and foreseeable hazards associated with the medical device based on the intended use, reasonably foreseeable misuse and the characteristics related to safety in both normal and fault conditions.Please refer to Risk Management FMEA Table (Doc. No. A-FMEA-HNX) for identifying hazards and hazardous situations.

Risk estimation

Estimation levels

Qualitative severity levels

Category

Severity

Catastrophic

5

Death of patient, irreversible failure or disaster

Critical

4

Causing permanent damage or fatal injury

Serious

3

Injury or damage that requires professional medical technology.

Minor

2

Temporary injury that does not require professional medical treatment.

Negligible

1

Discomfort, temporary difficulty

Semi-quantitative probability of occurrence levels

Category

Points to consider / Likelihood

Patient harm will be caused by the inappropriate medical decision or action.

5

How urgent is an immediate decision or intervention for the patient?

What are the medical consequences of the inappropriate action or delay in taking necessary action?

To what extent would the condition of the patient increase the probability of occurrence of harm?

Frequent

>1

An incorrect medical decision and/or intervention (or lack of intervention) will occur due to the incorrect result.

4

Are the results used for diagnosis, therapy or monitoring?

Will the result be the primary basis for a particular medical decision? Or only used in the context of signs, symptoms, other examination results and the patient’s medical history?

Probable

1 ~ 10-1

A clinically significant delay in reporting the examination result (or ancillary patient information) would occur.

3

Is the result critical for a timely diagnosis or therapeutic decision?

Could a second examination be performed and the result be reported within the time required for a critical result?

Occasional

10-1 ~ 10-2

A device failure or use error

2

How effective are prevention/detection measures?

Would frequency depend on use environment?

Can specific faults, failure modes and/or use errors occur in a reasonably foreseeable combination to cause a hazard?

Remote

10-2 ~ 10-4

There is no risk to concern

1

There is no possibility of occurrence

Improbable

~ 10-6

The level of probability of occurrence and severity are defined as following table

Probability

 Severity

Negligible (1)

Minor (2)

Serious (3)

Critical (4)

Catastrophic (5)

Frequent (5)

5

10

15

20

25

Probable (4)

4

8

12

16

20

Occasional (3)

3

6

9

12

15

Remote (2)

2

4

6

8

10

Improbable (1)

1

2

3

4

5

Estimation of the risks for each hazardous situation

According to the ‘Risk Management Plan (Doc. No. A-RMP-HNX), the severity was evaluated by qualitative evaluation in 5 stages score, and the probability of occurrence was evaluated by semi- quantitative or qualitative evaluation in 5 stages score.

Information or data for estimating risks could be obtained from:

published standards

scientific or technical investigations

field data from similar medical devices already in use, including publicly available reports of incidents,

clinical evidence

expert opinion

Please refer to Risk Management FMEA Table (Doc. No. A-FMEA-HNX) for identifying hazards and hazardous situations.

Risk Evaluation

Criteria for risk acceptability

The estimated risks are divided into 2 risk regions below according to the risk management plan of this device.

Acceptable Risk (A): Acceptable Region, Green Zone, Risk levels: 1~4

Unacceptable Risk (U): Unacceptable Region, Red Zone, Risk levels: 5~25

Risk evaluation results before risk control

Risk evaluation before risk control are shown in Tables 1 and 2.

Table 1. Risk evaluation results before risk control

Severity

Probability

Negligible

(1)

Minor

(2)

Serious

(3)

Critical

(4)

Catastrophic

(5)

Frequent

(5)

Probable

(4)

6

2

Occasional

(3)

10

15

11

Remote

(2)

3

4

Improbable

(1)

Table 2. Risk evaluation results before risk control (Numbers in the regions)

Classification

Acceptable (AR)

Unacceptable (UA)

Total

Acceptable region

Unacceptable region

EN ISO 14971:2019

(&IEC 60601-1)

6

45

51

Sum

6

45

51

Analysis for risk evaluation results before risk control

Through the identification of known and foreseeable hazards, 43 risks were identified and estimated.

The risk evaluation results are determined that;

- Acceptable region: 6ea

- Unacceptable region: 45ea

Risk reduction is required for the risks that belong to the Red Zone.

Risk Control

Risk control option analysis

We used one or more of the following risk control options in priority order listed below, for the risks need to be reduced to an acceptable level: (Refer to “clause 7.2 the implementation of the risk control measures)

inherently safe design and manufacture

eliminating a particular hazard,

reducing the probability of occurrence of the harm, or

reducing the severity of the harm

with reviewing the national and international standards to meet the requirements and try to reduce the use errors by applying usability engineering process that we endeavor to optimize the user interface in the product.

protective measures in the medical device itself or in the manufacturing process

identify hazardous situations in working environment

adding the risk control measures to prevent the problems possible occurred in production phase in accordance with the quality management plan (production procedures or inspection standard).

information for safety and, where appropriate, training to users

Providing hazardous information (contraindication, warning, and precaution) through instructions for use.

Placing warning on the label to make sure the operators read the instructions for use before they operate the device.

Implementation of risk control measures

The verification of the implementation of each risk control measure follows:

design and development verification according to ISO 13485: Design and Development Procedures (Doc No. AQP-704)

The effectiveness of the implementation of each risk control measure follows:

design and development validation according to ISO 13485: Design and Development Procedures (Doc No. AQP-704)

Usability test according to IEC 62366-1: Design and Development Procedures (Doc No. AQP-704)

Safety Test according to IEC 60601-1

Please refer to Risk Management FMEA Table (Doc. No. A-FMEA-HNX)

Please refer to User Manual (Doc. No. A-IFU-HNX)

Residual risk evaluation

After performing risk control measures, evaluate and record residual risks according to the criteria defined in the risk management plan.

Please refer to Risk Management FMEA Table (Doc. No. A-FMEA-HNX)

The residual risk evaluation results

All identified residual risks evaluated after implementation of the risk control measures, are distributed in an acceptable region.

Risk evaluation results after risk control

Severity

Probability

Negligible

(1)

Minor

(2)

Serious

(3)

Critical

(4)

Catastrophic

(5)

Frequent

(5)

Probable

(4)

Occasional

(3)

Remote

(2)

Improbable

(1)

6

10

20

15

Risk evaluation results after risk control (Numbers in the regions)

Classification

Acceptable (AR)

Unacceptable (UA)

Total

Acceptable region

Unacceptable region

EN ISO 14971:2019

51

0

51

Sum

51

0

51

All risks are controlled by adequate risk control measures in accordance with risk management plan.

Benefit-risk analysis

General

ISO 14971:2019 allows the manufacturer to perform a benefit-risk analysis for those risks that are not judged acceptable using the criteria established in the risk management plan and for which further risk control is not practicable. The benefit-risk analysis is used to determine if the residual risk is outweighed by the expected benefits of the intended use of the medical device.

Benefit estimation

Benefit can be estimated from knowledge of several factors such as:

The performance expected during clinical use

The clinical outcome expected from that performance.

Benefits resulting from the use of similar medical devices.

Factors relevant to the risks and benefits of other diagnosis or treatment options.

The type of expected benefits for the patient or other people.

The magnitude of the expected benefits.

The probability that the patient will experience the expected benefits

The duration of the expected effects.

Criteria for benefit-risk analysis

In accordance with ISO 14971:2019, the benefit-risk analysis for the individual risk and the overall benefit-risk analysis should be implemented regardless of whether the risk is in the Green Zone or Red Zone after implementing risk control measures and evaluating residual risk(s).

Benefit-risk comparison

If contrast is necessary for risk benefit analysis, we will proceed with the following considerations.

Characterization of the disease or condition of the intended patients;

The uncertainty of data. Initially, a literature search for the hazards and the medical device being considered can provide insight into the balance between benefit and risk;

Production and post-production information for similar medical devices that are already available on the market;

The generally acknowledged state of the art;

A comparison of the benefits of the medical device under development with the benefits of similar medical devices available on the market;

A comparison of the residual risks of the medical device under development with the residual risks of similar medical devices available on the market.

Conclusion for benefit-risk analysis

Please refer to Risk Management FMEA Table (Doc. No. A-FMEA-HNX) for Conclusion for benefit-risk analysis

Risk arising from risk control measures

The effectiveness of risk control measures, taking into account the following points were discussed:

the introduction of new hazards or hazardous situations;

whether the estimated risks for previously identified hazardous situations are affected by the introduction of the risk control measures.

Any new or increased risks shall be managed in accordance with 4.4 to 6.5 of this report.

And we determined that the residual risk through the review of the results of this device caused by the risk control measures are acceptable.

Please refer to Risk Management FMEA Table (Doc. No. A-FMEA-HNX)

Completeness of risk control

All identified risks evaluated after implementation of the risk control measures, are reduced within a broadly acceptable region. And the estimated risks for previously identified hazardous situation are not affected by the introduction of the risk control measures. Therefore, we determined that the risk controls against all identified risks are well completed.

Please refer to Risk Management FMEA Table (Doc. No. A-FMEA-HNX)

Evaluation of overall residual risk

Result of the evaluation of overall residual risk

The risk management activities for HnX-P1 & HnX-PB according to the risk management plan are performed and completed with appropriately designated personnel exclude the production and post-production related activities.

The H&abyz Co., Ltd. figured out the intended purpose and the characteristics related to the safety of the Portable X-ray System identified the known and foreseeable hazards associated with the Portable X-ray System in both normal and fault conditions.

As control measures for the identified risks, providing label and user manual, using certified battery, testing the device to meet IEC 60601-1, designing each cable type differently, establishing software development process in accordance with IEC 62304, radio-related testing, and using certified RF module, etc. were implemented and verified.

After all risk control measures have been implemented and verified, the residual risks within the Portable X-ray System are reduced in the acceptable region, and the new hazards needed for additional risk control measures are not identified.

Finally, the overall residual risks are determined to be acceptable through the warning, operating method and adverse event reporting.

Risk management review

After all risk control measures have been implemented and verified, we have gathered and reviewed data and literature to determine whether the medical benefits of the intended purpose outweigh the overall residual risk.

If the medical benefits do not outweigh the overall residual risk, then overall residual risk remains unacceptable.

If the medical benefits outweigh the overall residual risk, then the overall residual risk can be judged acceptable.

For an overall residual risk that is judged acceptable, we shall decide which information for safety is necessary to disclose the overall residual risk.

The results of evaluation of overall residual risk are as the following;

Overall residual risk posed by the medical device are all acceptable.

Finally, the overall residual risks are determined to be acceptable through the label, operating method and adverse event reporting and usability expert review, as the following;

Classification

Reviews and results

Label

Attached the symbols on the device according to standards, EN 15322-1 and describes those in the instructions for use.

Operating Method

Complied with the accompany document requirements in 15322-1

Considered the human factor engineering principles in operating method and its user interfaces are equal to those of the third party product.

Adverse event Reporting

There are no newly reported adverse events through the review of the adverse event reporting of the similar products.

Usability expert Review

The residual risk of the device were no new comments through the review the results of the experts comments.

Risk management report

Collection and review activities in production and post-production phase

Risk management activities according to the risk management plan are performed and completed with appropriately designated personnel exclude the production and post-production related activities.

The results of risk management activities are as the following;

A-LPS-HNX Label and packaging specification

EN ISO 14971:2019

Acceptability for the overall residual risk

Risk management activities according to the risk management plan are performed and completed with appropriately designated personnel exclude the production and post-production related activities.

H&abyz figured out the intended purpose and the characteristics related to the safety of HnX-P1 & HnX-PB identified the known and foreseeable hazards associated with the Portable X-ray system in both normal and fault conditions.

After all risk control measures have been implemented and verified, the residual risks within the Portable X-ray system are reduced in the acceptable region, and the new hazards needed for additional risk control measures are not identified.

Finally, the overall residual risks are determined to be acceptable through the warning, operating method and adverse event reporting and usability expert review.

 Appropriate methods to obtain relevant production and post-production information

Refer to A-PMS-HNX Post-Market Surveillance for getting the information of production and post- production phases.

Risk management declaration of conformity

H&abyz declares as follows for the risk management results of HnX-P1 & HnX-PB, identified the known and foreseeable hazards associated with the portable X-ray system in both norms.

Risk Management Declaration of Conformity

The risk management activities on Portable X-ray system, identified the known and foreseeable hazards associated with HnX-P1 & HnX-PB in both norm has performed considering the risks such as design, production, storage, related international standards, state of art of risk management and know and foreseeable risks related to the intended purpose.

H&abyz tried to prevent the healthcare of medical device handlers, operators, everyone involved in the patient’s health, from the physical injury or damage to property or the environment in accordance with the risk managements process, and we identify the hazards, estimate the related risks and controlled them.

As described in the risk management report, all identified hazards are reduced into an acceptable level, additional risks associated with the intended purpose, are not detected. Also, as compared to the clinical efficacy and effects of other similar medical devices, identified the known and foreseeable hazards associated with the Portable X-ray system in both norm is expected to be well suited to the intended purpose of this device.

Production and post-production information

Collection and review activities in production and post-production phase

Department

Information collecting and review in production and post-production

Quality Assurance

1. Customer satisfaction survey

Conduct the activities such as maintenance and repair at customer site, once every 12 months in accordance with the feedback procedure

2. Statistical processing of customer complaints

Monitoring the customer’s complaints and corrected results and then feedback that information to the related departments in accordance with the feedback procedure

3. Monitoring results of the incoming inspection and end product test results

Monitoring the relationship between the problem in the incoming inspection and the end product testing, and the risks in accordance with the test and inspection procedure

4. Monitoring the measuring devices

Maintenance the measuring devices related to risk controls and monitoring the problem occurs due to the repair, calibration and regular maintenance activities of the measuring devices in accordance with the equipment management procedure

R&D

1. Design changes

If you need to change the design, proceed as the design/development procedure, establish the risk management plan, record and maintain the results of risk analysis, risk evaluation, risk control and residual risk assessment, and reflect the results in the production phases.

2. Monitoring the national and international standards

Monitoring the medical appliance act and related international standards, and reflect the results in the development department in accordance with the design/development procedure

3. Collect and analysis of the market information

collect the market information such as similar device, competitor device including our device

monitoring and analysis the medical device incidents, close calls and side effects

Production

Process management monitoring

Monitoring the relationship between the problem in the process inspection and the risks in accordance with process and product management procedure

Management

Monitoring the purchaser assessment results

Monitoring the relationship between the problem in the material inspection and supplier relationships, and the risks in accordance with purchase management procedure

Responsibility and the role of the Quality manager

 Collect, review the information and manage the quality problems in production and post-production phase

 Risk analysis for the collected information (once every 12 months)

analysis the previously unknown hazards or hazardous situations exist or arise new hazards in the context of working environment, and whether the estimated risks for previously identified hazardous situations are affected by the introduction of the information.

Control the new hazards

If previously unknown hazards or hazardous situations exist and the risk is not judged acceptable:

assess the effect of the previously implemented risk management activities;

review the risk management files whether the additional risk control measures are needed to control the hazards.

After the adequate assessment, if the new hazards exist or additional risk control measures are needed, proceed the iterative risk management activities and update the risk management file.

If the risk management plan is need to be updated, record the changes and should be received the re-approval.

Adverse event reporting, if necessary

According to the seriousness of the information collected, the Quality manager shall report safety information and any side effects to the regulatory agency (Applicable national or regional regulations).
