queueId: ingest-1781569954416-14vz
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/02_ADD (HAD1417MCW)/▶ FDA/참조 문서/2. Software/1. Software Development Plan (Doc. No. SDP-01, Rev.0).docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/fcfd724aaed1/1. Software Development Plan (Doc. No. SDP-01, Rev.0)__fcfd724aaed1_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 03d348c3c782
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 1281

SOURCE_TEXT
Software Development Plan

According to EN 62304:2006/AC:2008

Product information

Product Name

Model Name

Document Number

SDP-01

Preparation, Review and Approval of the document

Prepared by

Reviewed by

Approved by

Name

Position

Assistant Manager

CEO

Date

2018.02.10

2018.02.10

2018.02.10

Signature

Revision History

No.

Rev. No.

Description of changes

Date

1

0

Initial Release

Contents

1. Introduction 4

2. Software Development Activities 5

2.1 Software development process 5

2.1.1 Overview of process phases 6

2.1.2 End of phases reviews 6

2.1.3 Technical documentation 6

2.1.4 Deliverables 6

2.2 Development environment 7

2.2.1 System requirements 7

2.2.2 Hardware requirements 7

2.3 Software development rules and standards 7

3. Software Specifications (sub section sample) 8

3.1 Input data 8

3.2 Content 8

3.3 Output data 8

3.4 Review and acceptation criteria 8

4. Responsibilities 9

4.1 Activities and responsibilities 9

4.2 Documentation of Activities and responsibilities 9

5. Schedule 10

5.1 Software integration and integration testing Planning 10

5.2 Technique and test procedure for the test method 10

5.2.1 Testing Methods 10

5.2.2 Testing Description 10

5.2.3 Solution process when defect occurs 10

5.2.4 Roles and Responsibilities 11

5.2.5 V.V & T Item & Methods 11

5.2.6 Documentation Handling 12

5.2.7 Process Assessment 12

5.3 Software Risk Management planning 12

5.4 Software configuration management planning 13

5.4.1 The following table contains configuration items that are included SCM Plan. 13

5.4.2 Configuration Item Identifier 13

5.4.3 Software Configuration Control 14

5.5 Configuration item control before verification 14

5.6 Software Maintenance Plan 15

6. Supporting items to be controlled 18

Introduction

 The software validation process is defined and managed through the use of Planning. Software validation plan should define “What” to perform through the software validation effort. Software validation plan represents the range of application of important means of quality systems, approach, resources, schedule, type of activity range (extent), work, and work items.

Software Development Activities

The section list and describes the software development activities of __________ Software development project.

Software development process

Software development process at 회사명 follows a classic waterfall methodology, as illustrated in the following chart

Analysis

Planning

Basic Design

Detailed Design

Implementation, Unit Test

Integration Test

Validation & Verification Test

Monitoring

Definition

Design

Implementation

Qualification

Maintenance

Quality Assessment and Planning

Classic " Waterfall" Life Cycle Model

Analysis.

The activity consists of establishing requirements for as much as possible before the

design phase. The requirements are documented in the software-specific requirements and design

notes. When enough of the requirements are gathered and analyzed for this iteration of the prototype, the activities shift into the design phase.

The analysis included a risk analysis.

Planning.

This activity constructs the software development plan. This plan outlines the tasks, responsibilities,

resources, and other items pertinent to the specific development project.

Design.

This activity considers four functional attributes of the software: data structure, software architecture, functionality, and interface characterization. The design is documented in design documents.

Implementation.

The implementation phase converts the design into a machine-readable form. The software source-

code is created in accordance with 회사명 coding conventions. To verify that the code created is consistent with 회사명 standards, design reviews/inspections are held.

Qualification.

The qualification phase verifies that the design and code implemented meet the requirements.

Testing ensures that defined input will produce actual results that agree with required results.

Maintenance.

Once the software enters a released state, the only software changes allowed are to fix identified defects in the code or to support approved enhancements. All identified system software defects are recorded on System Discrepancy Reports forms or submitted to the Modification Request document.

Overview of process phases

The lifecycle of the software development project is composed of

• Software specification,

• Software detailed design,

• Software coding and unit tests,

• Software integration

• Software verification tests

End of phases reviews

The phases of the lifecycle are ended by the following reviews

• Software specification: software specification review,

• Software detailed design: software detailed design review,

• Software coding and unit tests: automated tests review,

• Software integration: integration test review,

• Software verification tests, final verification test review.

Technical documentation

The following documentation is produced during the design phases:

• Software specification: SRS, IRS, STP,

• Software detailed conception: updated SRS, SDD, IDD, updated STP, STD

• Coding and unit tests: STR of unit tests

• Software tests phases: STR, VDD.

Deliverables

The following items are delivered at the end of the process:

• Technical documentation,

• User documentation: user guide, administration procedures and installation procedure,

• Software and its configuration files.

Development environment

System requirements

• Operating system : Microsoft Window 7 or higher

Hardware requirements

1) ______________ Firmware

- Program Language: C++, MFC 14.0

- Memory: 16 GB or higher

- Hard disk: 256 GB or higher

Software development rules and standards

Describe here the standards and rules used for software development, like modelling (UML), data modelling, coding rules, …

Coding rules are sometimes worth a separate document.

3Development Process Phases

You may describe your phases in §2.2.x of project management plan or here.

This document is more technical than the project management plan, so you may describe your phases with more technical information.

Add subsections which detail the phases listed in §2.1.1 Overview of process phases

Software Specifications (sub section sample)

Input data

List input data : clinical data, risk analysis, design history Etc.

Content

The goal of this phase is to write the software requirements with the following (but not exclusive) specifications:

• Functional requirements, performances, physical characteristics, environment conditions in which the software will run,

• Safety requirements including those about the exploitation and maintenance methods, the influence on the environment, the risks analysis,

• Ergonomics requirements, including manual operations, man-machine interactions, human factors,

• User documentation,

• Exploitation by end users.

Output data

List output data : SRS, IRS, STP Etc.

Review and acceptation criteria

This phase ends with a software specifications review:

• Participants : R&D Team

• Data reviewed : Software Rrequirement Specification

The results of this phase shall be verified with the following criteria:

• Requirements traceability,

• Coherence with external systems,

• Internal coherence,

• Testability,

• Feasibility of software detailed conception,

• Feasibility of exploitation and maintenance.

Responsibilities

Activities and responsibilities

Each activity has someone responsible, mandatory. For small teams, may be always the same person.

Activity

Responsibility

Service/Department

Project management

Project Manager

R&D Team

Configuration tools management

Configuration Manager

R&D Team

Setting up the Development tools

Configuration Manager

R&D Team

Software specifications

Product champion

R&D Team

Documentation of Activities and responsibilities

Document name

Purpose

Intended audience of document

responsibilities for

Development, review,

approval and

modification

Software Development Plan

Reducing the risks caused by the software, inform the procedures and the purpose, and plan for software development in order to ensure that the system meets the quality requirements for medical device software.

R&D Team

R&D Team

Risk Management

Identify the hazards associated with the product during the Life cycle of a product, and estimate/control the associated risks. Maintain the record in order to monitor the efficiency of the control.

R&D Team

CTO

Software Requirements Specification

It is written to determine what information to build in order to meet the customer’s requirements and design inputs.

R&D Team

R&D Team

Software Design

Description &

Specification

The document is for describing how to fulfill the requirements for the software device.

R&D Team

R&D Team

Software Verification

& Validation

Determine the validity of the development stpes, and development process to see if it meets the specified requirements.

R&D Team

QA Team

R&D Team

QA Team

User manual

It is written to describe the information required in order to use the product efficiently and safely.

Users

Project Manager

Schedule

Software integration and integration testing Planning

Once the software design is completed, TEST the interaction between the developed program and other system (Operating System) after checking that the unit program or module functions peorplery as defined in the program specification

Reference: 2.1 Software development process

Technique and test procedure for the test method

Testing Methods

Static Testing & Dynamic Testing

Testing Description

Static Testing Outline

Static Testing is a method to find defects without executing the software. The code will be reviewed by the programmer who wrote the code and other programmers to find the problems and things that are missing, and record its result

Level of testing

The test is processed in a step-by-step process (from the sub-code to the module), and integration and integration verification is performed.

Dynamic Testing Outline

Dynamic Testing is a method to find defects by executing the software. Found defect is modified by debugging, and is a representative method of a direct test.

Functional or Black box testing

Functional testing is a technique in which functionality and requirements of the software are tested without looking at the internal design structure.

It proceeds by performing a dynamic testing focused to the requirements and functionality.

Clearly state the test criteria and the requirements of all clients to minimize errors that may occur in actual operation.

Solution process when defect occurs

Test process follows the following order.

Error found

If an error is found while performing the requirement analysis, design, and test process, please discuss with the professional testers and project teams.

Error registration

Register the error in the defect management report.

Error analysis

Analyze whether the registered error is just the simple error or the physical defect.

Defect confirmation

When the registered information is confirmed as a ‘defect’, set the found error to ‘defect state’

Defect assignment

Specifies the representative and assign the defect.

Defect action

Perform a corrective action of the defect, and if corrective action is completed, set the defect as the ‘defect action state.

Defect action review and approval

Perform verification testing of the modified defect and ensure that the defect is corrected properly. If the action is completed successfully, set the defect as ‘action complete’ state.

Roles and Responsibilities

Where roles and responsibilities are identified, or his/her designate is implied.

Management Members

Hazard Analysis Team: Members, Roles and Responsibilities

V & V Testing Team: Members, Roles and Responsibilities

Documentation Review: Members, Roles and Responsibilities

Team Members/Qualifications

General Qualifications/Requirements as described in each individual’s training file.

V.V & T Item & Methods

Static Analysis

a. Code Review: performed by S/W engineer.

b. Module Test: performed by S/W engineer.

c. Integration Test: performed by S/W engineer.

Dynamic Test

a. Dynamic Test : performed by Q.A Team & S/W engineer

Documentation Handling

Documentation will be handled in accordance with 회사명

outlined in QM Document Control.

Documentation Handling

Documentation will be handled in accordance with 회사명 standards outlined in QM Document Control.

Process Assessment

The assessment of process is performed by internal audits.

Software Risk Management planning

 - Refer the Risk Management plan(문서번호)

Software configuration management planning

To control the changes in the software configuration to maintain the product’s integrity and traceability throughout all steps of the software development life cycle from an early stage in the development to the maintenance.

The following table contains configuration items that are included SCM Plan.

Configuration Items

Description/SUITE Form

Responsible for placing item under control

When item is put under control

Software development plan

Project Manager

Initiation & Planning Stage Exit

Software Requirements Specification

Project Manager, R&D Team

Requirements Stage Exit

Software Design Specification

R&D Team

Design Stage Exit

Traceability Analysis

R&D Team, QA Team

Requirements Stage Exit

Software Validation, Verification and Testing

R&D Team, QA Team

System Design Stage Exit

Release Documents

R&D Team

Implementation Stage Exit

Configuration Item Identifier

Configuration Item Identifiers are used to label all of the CIs that make up a particular grouping such as an application release, a project development phase or documentation changes.

This identification scheme preserves all of the files that are used to create each release and exactly which versions of those files were used. This scheme works for the application installations and then for subsequent upgrades.

Identifiers are used to label the documentation deliverables in a project. For instance, at the end of the system design stage, all of the approved deliverables will be labeled and preserved for future reference. After the completion of the project, many of the deliverables will need to be updated to reflect changes to the application. Those deliverables are assigned identification labels so that their current state can be identified and preserved for future reference.

CM numbering convention for the development and testing items.

It has a purpose to define the rules of the serial number. Functional requirements and test number is included, and front two characters are uppercase letters and back characters are numbers in principle. Revision number is used as the Revision version. Ex) SR0.0.0 (requirement), DT0-00(dynamic testing)

Rules and distribution of the Software version

If any or all of a design results from a modification of an earlier design then either all of applies as if it were a new design or the continued validity of any previous design documentation shall be assessed under a documented modification/change PROCEDURE.

- Software Version Management

Software Configuration Control

Configuration control has four main processes: 1. Identification and documentation of the need for a change in a change request. 2. Analysis and evaluation of a change request and production of a change proposal. 3. Approval or disapproval of a change proposal. 4. Verification, implementation and release of a change.

 <Software Configuration Management Life Cycle>

Software Configuration Control includes the following objectives:

Procedures for changing baselines

Change requests approvals

Responsibilities for change control

Change control process

Request for Change process

Management of release documentation

Configuration control tools and techniques

- Design management procedure (문서번호), refer to the Software Validation Procedures (문서번호)

Configuration item control before verification

▪ Refer to the Software Development Plan 5.4.2 1)

Software Maintenance Plan

Maintenance

Request

Establish Software

Maintenance plan

Problem and modification analysis

Modification Implement

Task

-Receive

-Planning

-Analysis

-Evaluate

-Analysis

-Planning

-Basic Design

-Detailed Design

-Implementation

-Unit test

-Integration test

-Verification & Validation Test

-Confirm development step

-Monitoring

Input

- Voice of Customer

-Customer Complain

-Customer Complain

-Software Maintenance

Procedure

-Customer Complain

-Design Change Record

-Revision History

Output

-Customer Complain Card

-Customer Suggestion Card

-Software Maintenance

Procedure

-Design Change Record

-Revision History

-Software specification

-Source code

-Executable program

-Test report

Activity

-

-Establish Software

Maintenance plan

-Monitor feedback

-Document and Evaluate

 feedback

-Use software problem

 resolution process

-Analyze Change requests

-Charge request approval

-Communicate to users

and regulators

-Define function requirement

-Define environment requirement

-Define user requirement

-Planning Development

-Revise Software module, function,

Integration

-Convert source code to machine

code

-Verify source code

-Verification executable program

-Development output

-Assessment design & development output

-Verification report

-Validation report

-Conference record

Risk

Management

Activity

-

-Evaluate Software

Maintenance Plan on

Safety;

Write on Design

Review History

-Evaluate PROBLEM

REPORT’s affects on

SAFETY

-Planning Risk Management

-Define Characteristic

-Define Hazard

-Implement, record and

verify appropriate Measures

-Assessment residual risk

-Check another now risk

-Check all risk is considered

-Assessment overall residual risk

-Complete risk management report

-Review post product information

-Management new risk

-Report potential or existing safety and/or performance problems

-Assess of each problem for

associated risks

- Identify the criteria

-Identify the action to be taken to

resolve each problem

-Identify validation methods for

each action

-Identify the steps taken for

Verification of continuing

compliance

Documentation

-Customer Complain

-Customer Suggestion Card

-Software Maintenance

Procedure

-Design Review History

-Customer Complain

-Design Change Record

-Revision History

-Software Requirement Specification

-Software Design Specification

-Development Plan

-Risk Management Plan

-Test report

-Verification Report

-Validation Report

-Software release Certification

-Risk management Report

-Design change report

-Conference report

Supporting items to be controlled

No

Maintenance identification

Supporting items

Remark

1

Updates due to error correction

Patch or Re-installation

Download from the server and execute patch or re-installation

1-1

Updates that do not require installation

Patch

Compares the current file with the latest file on the server and performs the patch

1-2

Updates that require installation

Re-installation

Download the latest installation file from the server and notify the user to install it

2

Updates due to function addition / change

Re-installation

Download the latest installation file from the server and notify the user to install it.

2-1

Updates that do not require installation

Patch

Compares the current file with the latest file on the server and performs the patch

2-2

Updates that require installation

Re-installation

Download the latest installation file from the server and notify the user to install it
