queueId: ingest-1781569954392-lpu
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/11_Audit F-up/240415-17 ISO 갱신심사 & 2,3G MDR 심사 - 3EC/MDR 보완/[2nd response TD by H&abyz] Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector (08 March 2024) word/A-TCF-5-157 Clinical Evaluation/비교제품 근거자료/2.2 Carestream-DRX-1-System brochure.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/699310a53577/2.2 Carestream-DRX-1-System brochure__699310a53577_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 8d642254f188
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 614

SOURCE_TEXT
DRX-1 System
Powerful.
Versatile.
Wireless.Upgrade Your X-ray Room to DR in One Day.
S M A R T I M A G I N G S O L U T I O N S

Advantages at a Glance
• Upgrade your current room to full wireless DR in a day.
• Wireless connectivity eliminates the hassles and hazards of cables
and reduces the risk of infection.
• Full digital technology eliminates steps in the process to increase
productivity.
• Gain instant access to images to speed decisions on patient care.
• A separate battery charger allows the detector to be used while
a spare battery is being charged.
• A variety of detector sizes and price ranges is available.
The DRX-1 System is designed to help optimize the imaging
equipment you’re using right now. It’s compatible with any X-ray
system that uses ISO 4090-compliant 35x43, 43x43 and 25x30 cm
cassettes – so there’s no need to modify your generator or Bucky,
discard your wallstand or table, or radically alter your procedures.
And, the DRX-1 System can be installed in your exam room in
just one day.
• The DR Detector wirelessly transmits digital images to
your capture console.
• Images are ready for immediate viewing and manipulation.
• From the console, images can quickly be forwarded to a
printer, PACS archive and other network destinations.
• The detector’s light weight and wireless operation provide
convenient handling and excellent positioning flexibility.
• Our DRX Plus 3543 and DRX Plus 4343 Detectors use a
Gadolinium (GOS) Scintillator for general radiography
imaging, while the DRX Plus 3543C and DRX Plus 4343C
Detectors’ Cesium (CsI) Scintillator is ideal for pediatrics and
other dose-sensitive applications.
• The small-format DRX Plus 2530C Detector is ideal for
pediatrics as well as orthopaedic tabletop applications.
• The Lux 35 Detector is glass-free and features a sleek, ergonomic
design for easier handling and positioning.
• Choose the Focus Detectors for an affordable upgrade to full,
wireless DR imaging.
• For long-bone and spine imaging, the DRX-L Detector is the ideal
solution as it captures long-length images in a single exposure,
reducing exposure, speeding exam time and minimizing repeats.
Leverage your current investment and upgrade to DR
technology to gain workflow efficiencies, improve
productivity and enhance patient care.
The CARESTREAM DRX-1 System works with our
DRX Plus, Lux 35 and Focus Detectors. Each detector
simply slides into your existing X-ray equipment.
And for long-length imaging exams, our DRX-L
Detector captures leg and spine images in a single
exposure.
If your facility is still imaging with film or CR, or you
have older DR technology, an upgrade to full
wireless digital can provide tremendous benefits:
superb image quality, greater productivity and
super-charged workflow.
Choose from a variety of detector sizes including
35x43 cm, 43x43 cm, 25x30 cm and our 17x51 in. for
long-length exams. There are also options for wireless,
fixed and tethered versions. This allows you to select just
the right detector for your facility and your budget.
The Fast, Easy Way to
Move to DR Imaging.
The DRX Detector and the Lux Detector battery charger
simultaneously recharges up to three detector batteries.

DRX-1 System
A Smooth Transition to Lower Costs
The DRX-1 System allows you to step up to DR productivity with minimal
disruption and downtime. Compared to DR room replacements, the DRX-1
requires substantially less staff training time – thanks to user familiarity with
existing equipment. Plus, the system’s compact, modular-capture console is
used alongside your generator console.
The result? You’ll be up and running fast with a minimized initial investment.
From then on, you’ll realize greater productivity and cost savings. Even better,
you’ll extend the life of your conventional X-ray equipment by using it for DR
image capture – and the wireless DR detectors make it easy.
The system is available with your choice of detector. Choose from the DRX Plus
Detectors, the glass-free Lux 35 Detector or our single-shot DRX-L Detector for
long-length imaging. All of these detectors feature the X-Factor so they can be
shared with your other DRX equipment in your facility. Or choose our Focus line
of detectors for a highly affordable upgrade solution.
A Wide Range of Benefits
INCREASED PRODUCTIVITY
• Fast image availability can reduce exam time and recalls, improve patient
satisfaction and provide quick answers in the ER or trauma department.
• The wireless, battery-powered detector provides the cordless-positioning
freedom of a conventional cassette.
BROAD VERSATILITY
• This sytem is designed for many types of general radiography exams.
• Conventional and CR cassettes can still be exposed in your Bucky.
• The system can be installed as an additional unit in a DR exam room.
• It’s compatible with many Carestream DR and CR systems, laser imagers,
PACS, archive options and workstations.
PROVEN IMAGE QUALITY
• You can count on the proven imaging technology in CARESTREAM DRX Systems.
• Software powered by Eclipse delivers superb image quality and unrivaled
diagnostic confidence.
The DRX-1 System console simplifies user operation with the
same intuitive touchscreen interface found in CARESTREAM
DRX systems using ImageView Software.

carestream.com/drx1
© Carestream Health, Inc., 2022. CARESTREAM is a trademark of Carestream Health. CAT 200 0096 01/22
“Rx only”
Seamless Detector Performance Wherever It’s Needed
The X-Factor allows you to move your detector to where it’s needed most.
Use it with your mobile systems for morning rounds or in the emergency
department or operating room, then move it to your X-ray room during
peak-demand hours. X-Factor Thinking delivers a detector ready
to perform whenever and wherever you need it.
With the X-Factor Detector Platform, our wireless DRX
and Lux Detectors work across all your DRX equipment
to provide images with superb speed and quality.
Our full line of digital X-ray systems combines
compatible, scalable components to meet today’s
needs and position you for tomorrow’s growth.
In Beam-Detect Mode there is no wired connection between the console and the OEM generator. The DRX Plus Detector automatically captures an image
when the console indicates that the detector is ready and an X-ray beam is detected.
Generator Interface: Two Easy Methods
In Direct-Connect Mode the exposure control is connected via a hardwire link to the generator. Interface cables are available for most OEM generators.
This is the preferred method of interface as it provides the most reliable detector integration and the longest detector battery life.
Prepare for exposure
Prepare and wait for exposure
DRX Plus
X-ray detected, image acquired
Ready for exposure
DRX-1 System Console
Interface Cable
X-ray Generator OEM X-ray Console
DRX Plus DRX-1 System Console X-ray Generator OEM X-ray Console
DRX-1 System in
Direct-Connect Mode
DRX-1 System in
Beam-Detect Mode
Think Sharing. Think X-Factor.
