queueId: ingest-1781569954413-11rx
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260520 우크라이나(Licarno) 23G, P1 - 이창민 팀장님/260602 추가 제출본/QMS/AQP706 Clinical Evaluation Regulation/AQP706_Clinical Evaluation Regulation.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/e4c2f4d7a7ed/AQP706_Clinical Evaluation Regulation__e4c2f4d7a7ed_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: ed5923580367
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 650

SOURCE_TEXT
임상평가 규정
(Clinical Evaluation Regulation)
Distinguishment ■ Controlled □ Uncontrolled
H&abyz 41-16, 2Dong, Cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-eup,
Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do
This document is effective from the date of appro.
Name Team Name Date Sign
Written
Jeong
Gyeong
gyun
Quality Management
Team 2024.04.01.
Reviewed - - -
Approved Hur
Nam kyu
Quality Management
Team 2024.04.01.

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 2 / 17
Index
0. Revision History ............................................................................................. 3
1. Purpose ........................................................................................................ 4
2. Applied Area ................................................................................................. 4
3. Terms and Definitions ................................................................................... 4
4. Responsibility and Authority .......................................................................... 7
5. Work procedures .......................................................................................... 7
6. Related Form .............................................................................................. 17

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 3 / 17
0. Revision History
No Revision
date Reasons for revision and major revisions Approver
0 2024.04.01.
Complete revision in accordance with KGMP, EN ISO
13485:2016+A11:2021, FDA 21 CFR Part 820, and
MDR (EU) 2017/745 Article 10 requirements.
Namkyu.Hur

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 4 / 17
1. Purpose
This regulation aims to specify the level and justification of clinical evidence
required to demonstrate compliance with the General Safety and
Performance Requirements (GSPR) of medical devices manufactured by our
company.
2. Applied Area
It is applied to planning, continuously conducting, and documenting clinical
evaluations of medical devices.
3. Terms and Definitions
No. Terms Definition
1 Adverse event
Any unexpected medical incident or unintended illness
or injury or any clinical sign occurring in subjects, users
or others in the context of a clinical trial, including any
abnormal laboratory results, whether or not related to
the clinical trial device.
2 Serious adverse event
Any adverse event resulting in any of the following:
(a) Death
(b) Significant deterioration in the subject's health
resulting in any of the following:
i. Life-threatening disease or injury
ii. Permanent impairment of body structure or
function
iii. Hospitalization or prolongation of patient's
hospitalization
iv. Medical or surgical intervention to prevent life-
threatening disease or injury or permanent
impairment of body structure or function
v. Chronic disease
(a) (c) Fetal distress, fetal death, congenital physical or
mental disability, birth defect

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 5 / 17
3 Bias
Bias is a systematic deviation from the true value
measurement, leading to either an overestimation or an
underestimation of the treatment effect. This can arise,
for example, from how patients are assigned to
treatments, how treatment outcomes are measured, or
how data are recorded and reported.
4 Equivalent device A device proven to be equivalent to the device in
question
5 Clinical data
Information on the use of medical devices and their
safety or performance from the following sources:
Clinical data are obtained from:
- Clinical trials of the device in question
- Clinical trials or studies reported in academic journals
on medical devices that can be demonstrated to be
equivalent to the device in question
- Reports published in peer-reviewed journals on other
clinical experience with the device or devices that can
be demonstrated to be equivalent to the device in
question
- Clinically relevant information obtained from post-
marketing surveillance, particularly post-marketing
clinical observations (PMCF).
6 Clinical Evaluation
A systematic and planned process for continuously
generating, collecting, analyzing, and evaluating clinical
data on a medical device for the purpose of verifying
the safety and performance, including clinical benefit, of
the device when used as intended by the manufacturer
7 Clinical Evidence
Means the results of clinical evaluations and clinical data
of sufficient quantity and quality for a device to enable
a qualitative assessment of whether the device is safe
and can achieve the intended clinical benefit when used
as intended by the manufacturer.
8
Clinical investigation/
Clinical trial/
Clinical Study
Any systematic review involving one or more human
subjects conducted to evaluate the safety or
performance of a device

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 6 / 17
9 Clinical investigation plan
A document describing the rationale, objectives, design,
methodology, monitoring, statistical considerations,
organization, and conduct of a clinical trial.
10 Clinical performance
The ability of a device to achieve its intended purpose
and provide clinical benefit to the patient, as claimed by
the manufacturer, when used as intended by the
manufacturer, resulting from any direct or indirect
medical effects resulting from its technical or functional
features, including diagnostic features.
11 Clinical benefit
The positive impact of the device on an individual's
health, expressed in terms of meaningful and
measurable patient-related clinical outcomes, including
diagnostic outcomes, or positive impacts on patient care
or public health.
12 Device registry
A structured system that serves predetermined
scientific, clinical, and political purposes, using
observational research methods to collect clinical data
under normal use conditions involving one or more
devices, to evaluate specific outcomes for a population
defined by a specific disease, condition, or exposure.
13 Clinical safety
Freedom from unacceptable clinical risk (acceptable
risk) when using the device according to the
manufacturer's instructions for use.
14 Clinical use Use of medical devices in or on the body
15 Feasibility study
Clinical studies are commonly used to capture
preliminary information about a medical device (in the
early stages of design) to properly plan further stages
of device development, including the need for design
modifications or parameters for pivotal studies.

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 7 / 17
16 PMCF, Post-Market
Clinical Follow-up Plan
This activity helps provide data, documentation, and
evidence regarding the clinical safety or performance of
a medical device. PMCF is a component of post-market
surveillance (PMS) activities for medical devices. Its
purpose is to verify the clinical performance and safety
of a device in actual use and to help manufacturers
manage acceptable risks. Its purpose is to confirm the
expected safety and performance of the medical device
throughout its lifespan, to confirm the acceptability of
identified risks, and to detect emerging risks based on
facts.
4. Responsibility and Authority
4.1 Quality Manager
1) Approval of clinical evaluation plan/report
4.2 Development Team
1) Oversee clinical evaluation activities
2) Collect clinical data
3) Prepare clinical evaluation plan/report
4) Prepare PMCF plan/report
4.3 Clinical Evaluation Officer
1) Perform clinical evaluation activities
5. Work procedures
5.1 Clinical Evaluation Requirements
5.1.1 The development team must plan, conduct and document clinical
evaluations in accordance with Article 61 and Annex XIV Part A of MDR (EU)
2017/745 to.

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 8 / 17
1) The assessment of the acceptability of undesirable side effects and the
benefit-risk ratio mentioned in Sections 1 and 8 of the General Safety and
Performance Requirements (GSPR) under normal conditions of intended
use of the device should be based on clinical data providing sufficient
clinical evidence, including, where applicable, PMS-related data.
2) The level of clinical evidence required to demonstrate compliance with the
relevant General Safety and Performance Requirements (GSPR) must be
specified and justified. The level of clinical evidence must be appropriate
considering the characteristics of the device and its intended purpose.
5.1.2 Clinical evaluations should follow clearly defined and methodologically sound
procedures based on the following.
1) Critical evaluation of the currently available relevant scientific literature
regarding the safety, performance, design features and intended purpose
of the device, provided that the following conditions are met
① Demonstration that the device being evaluated for the intended
purpose is equivalent to the device to which the data relate, in
accordance with Section 3 of Annex XIV.
② Appropriate demonstration that the data comply with the relevant
General Safety and Performance Requirements (GSPR).
③ Critical evaluation of all available clinical trial results (if any), taking
into account whether the clinical trial was conducted in accordance
with all legislation adopted pursuant to Articles 62 to 80 and Article
81 of MDR (EU) 2017/745 and Annex XV.
④ Consideration of alternative treatment options currently available for
the purpose (if any)
5.1.3 Clinical evaluation staff should identify any discrepancies between available
clinical data and a systematic review of the scientific literature relevant to
the device and its intended use.
5.1.4 The clinical evaluation staff must review all relevant clinical data for
adequacy to demonstrate the safety and performance of the device.
5.1.5 The clinical evaluation staff shall generate new or additional clinical data
necessary to address any outstanding issues through appropriately planned
clinical trials in accordance with the clinical development plan.
5.1.6 The clinical evaluation must be thorough and objective, considering both
favorable and unfavorable data. Its depth and scope must be proportionate
and appropriate to the nature, class, intended use, and risks of the device,
as well as the company's claims regarding the device.

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 9 / 17
5.1.7 The clinical evaluation and its documentation should be updated throughout
the life cycle of the device with clinical data obtained from the
implementation of the PMCF plan in accordance with Annex XIV Part B and
the post-marketing surveillance (PMS) plan referred to in Article 84 of MDR
(EU) 2017/745.
5.1.8 The clinical evaluation and its results and the clinical evidence derived
therefrom shall be documented in a clinical evaluation report referred to in
Section 4 of Annex XIV, which is part of the technical documentation related
to the device.
5.2 Qualification of Clinical Evaluation Personnel
5.2.1 The clinical evaluation is overseen by the development team, and the
development team leader selects a clinical evaluation manager (technical
document writer) in accordance with the Human Resources Qualification
Regulations (AQP602).
5.3 Clinical Evaluation Performance Cycle
5.3.1 It is generally performed during the development phase of a device to
determine whether the device complies with the clinical safety and
performance requirements.
5.3.2 Even after the device is marketed, information collected from PMS activities
should be periodically updated in clinical evaluations throughout the device's
life cycle.

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 10 / 17
5.4 Clinical Evaluation Procedures
5.4.1 The clinical evaluation officer conducts a comprehensive analysis after
obtaining data related to the device's intended use (including clinical
performance and safety data) through pre-marketing investigations and
post-marketing surveillance.
5.4.2 Clinical evaluation proceeds to the following steps.
1) Step 0: Defining the scope of clinical evaluation and establishing a plan
① Description of the scope and context of the clinical evaluation,
including the product/model/size covered in the clinical evaluation
report, the underlying technology of the medical device, conditions of
use, and purpose of use
② Specifications for clinical performance and safety of the device
2) Step 1: Identification of clinical data
① Description of literature search strategy
② Presentation of the characteristics and scope of the identified clinical
data and related preclinical data
3) Step 2: Evaluation of clinical data (in terms of scientific validity, relevance,
and weighting)
① Description of the criteria used by the evaluator to evaluate the data
② Summary of relevant data (methods, results, author's conclusions)
③ Methodological quality of the relevant data, scientific validity, relevance
to the evaluation, weighting of the evidence, and any limitations
④ Justification for rejection of specific data or documents
4) Step 3: Clinical data analysis yields the following results
① The suitability of the GSPR for the performance and safety of the
device, including the benefit-risk ratio
② Determining the suitability of the information materials provided by
our company (labels, IFU, promotional materials, and other documents
provided by the manufacturer)
③ Residual risks or uncertainties or unresolved issues (including rare
complications, long-term performance, and safety due to distribution),
judgment on whether such risks or uncertainties are suitable for
certification, and judgment on whether the relevant matters should be
addressed in the PMS

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 11 / 17
5) Step 4: Writing a clinical evaluation report
① The clinical evaluation report compiles and outlines references to
relevant clinical data documents and technical documents, and
presents the results derived after reviewing all materials.
② Clinical data related to the clinical evaluation report is used as clinical
evidence to prove whether the device complies with the GSPR.
5.5 Establishing a clinical evaluation plan (Step 0)
5.5.1 The clinical evaluation manager should develop and update a clinical
evaluation plan that includes at least the following.
1) Identification of general safety and performance requirements (GSPR)
that require support from relevant clinical data
2) Intended purpose of the device
3) Clear specification of the intended target population, including clear
indications and contraindications
4) Detailed description of the intended clinical benefit to the patient,
including relevant and specific clinical outcome parameters
5) Methods used to examine qualitative and quantitative aspects of clinical
safety, including clear reference to the determination of residual risks and
adverse effects
6) A straightforward list and description of the parameters that should be
used to determine the acceptability of the benefit-risk ratio for the
intended purpose or purposes of various treatments and devices, based
on the state of the art in medicine
7) Indication of how benefit-risk issues related to specific components, such
as the use of drugs, non-viable animals, or human tissues, should be
addressed
8) Clinical development plans indicating the progression from preliminary
studies such as first clinical studies, feasibility and pilot studies to
confirmatory investigations such as pivotal clinical trials, and post-
marketing clinical observations (PMCF) including indications of the
timeline and descriptions of potential acceptability criteria.

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 12 / 17
5.6 Clinical Data Identification (Step 1)
5.6.1 Relevant clinical data can be divided into data generated and held by us and
data confirmed through literature.
1) Data created and held by us
① All pre-marketing clinical trials
② All clinical data generated from risk management activities and PMS
activities conducted by our company in Europe and other countries
– PMCF investigations (e.g., post-marketing clinical trials and any
device registration systems we apply for)
– PMS reports including Vigilance Report and Trend Report
– Literature search and evaluation report for PMS
– Incident reports submitted to us (including our own assessments
and reports)
– Customer complaints regarding performance and safety reported to
us (including our own assessments and reports)
– Details of the Field Safety Corrective Action (FSCN)
– Other user reports
③ Relevant preclinical trials (e.g., test reports including verification and
validation data)
2) Data confirmed through literature
① Clinical data related to the target medical device, including clinical data
related to the device or an equivalent device (selected according to
Article 5.6.2)
② State of the art. This includes relevant standards and guidelines,
benchtop instruments, other medical devices, key
components/ingredients, and medical alternatives, as well as data
related to specific medical conditions and patient populations intended
to be managed by the device.
5.6.2 Clinical evaluation may be based on clinical data from a device that can
demonstrate equivalence to the device in question. To demonstrate
equivalence, the following technical, biological, and clinical characteristics
should be considered.
1) Technical characteristics
① The design of the device is similar
② Used under similar usage conditions
③ Have similar specifications and characteristics including physical and

chemical properties such as energy intensity, tensile strength, volatility,
surface properties, wavelength, and software algorithms

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 13 / 17
④ If relevant, use a similar arrangement method
⑤ Has similar operating principles and major performance requirements.
2) Biological characteristics
① The device uses the same material or substance that comes into
contact with the same human tissue or body fluid with similar types
and duration of contact, and similar release characteristics of the
substance, including decomposition products and leachables
3) Clinical characteristics
① The device is used for the same clinical condition or purpose, including
similar severity and stage of the disease, in the same part of the body
with respect to age, anatomy and physiology, in a similar group
② Same type of user
③ Has similar relevant clinical performance in light of the expected
clinical effect for the specific intended purpose.
5.6.3 The characteristics listed in section 5.6.2 should be similar to the safety and
clinical performance of the device to the extent that there is no clinically
significant difference.
5.6.4 Considerations of equivalence must be based on appropriate scientific
justification.
5.6.5 To justify an equivalence claim, it must be clearly demonstrated that
sufficient access to data relevant to the device for which equivalence is
claimed is available.
5.7 Clinical Data Evaluation (Step 2)
5.7.1 The evaluator should perform the following to evaluate clinical data.
1) Identify the information contained in each document
2) Evaluate the methodological quality of the work performed by the author
and, from that, assess the scientific validity of the information
3) Determining the relevance of the information to clinical evaluation
4) Evaluation of the contribution of each data to clinical evaluation
5.7.2 The evaluator establishes the procedures and criteria used in the evaluation
to ensure systematic and unbiased data evaluation, including.
1) Criteria for judging the methodological quality and scientific validity of
each data
2) Criteria for determining relevance to clinical evaluation (relevance to
medical devices and relevance to different aspects of intended use)
3) Criteria for judging the contribution of each data to the overall clinical
evaluation

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 14 / 17
5.7.3 Evaluations must be thorough and objective, identifying and assigning
appropriate weight to the positive and negative aspects of each document.
5.7.4 The criteria adopted for evaluation should reflect the characteristics, history,
and clinical use of the medical device in question. These criteria should be
documented and justified based on current/state-of-the-art technology,
applying accepted scientific standards.
5.7.5 Evaluation criteria should be documented in the clinical evaluation report.
5.8 Analysis of clinical data (Step 3)
5.8.1 When the medical device is used according to its intended use, the clinical
data is analyzed to determine whether it can prove the suitability of the
GSPR for the clinical performance and safety of the device.

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 15 / 17
5.8.2 To demonstrate suitability, the evaluator shall.
1) Use appropriate methods
① A literature review should be conducted based on current/state-of-the-
art technology, based on the relevant literature identified in Step 1 and
evaluated in Step 2.
② Qualitative or quantitative analysis (quantitative assessment of the
number of potential medical accidents occurring in the post-marketing
phase is required)
③ Consistency of results regarding the performance characteristics and
identified risks of the medical device should be verified
2) Conduct comprehensive analysis
① Determination of GSPR suitability for clinical performance and safety
② The adequacy of preclinical trials (e.g., bench tests, animal tests) to
verify the risks to the safety of patients, users, or other persons in
relation to the intended use of the medical device
③ Patient benefits
④ Confirmation that the device achieves the performance we intend,
including all of our specifications
⑤ Check usability to ensure that the risk of use errors can be reduced as
much as possible during design and that it is appropriate for the
intended users
⑥ The adequacy of the information materials provided by our company,
including whether risk control measures are appropriately described in
the user manual (operating instructions, description of risks, warnings,
precautions, contraindications, management instructions for
anticipated undesirable situations)
⑦ Instructions for managing anticipated undesirable situations
⑧ All products and their intended uses must be considered in clinical
evaluations. Any gaps in evidence regarding the following information
must be addressed.
– Understanding the interaction between devices and the human
body
– Full range of products/models/sizes/settings to be evaluated
– Full scope of terms and purposes of use
– Estimated number of patients exposed to medical devices
– Type and appropriateness of patient monitoring
– Number and severity of adverse events
– Appropriateness of risk assessment associated with each identified
risk factor

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 16 / 17
– Severity and natural course of the condition being diagnosed or
treated
– Current standards of care, including the availability and benefit/risk
ratio of other medical devices and medical alternatives
⑨ The evaluator must evaluate whether there is consistency and
relevance between the clinical evaluation of the medical device being
evaluated, the information materials provided by the company, and the
risk management documents, and whether they are at the
current/state-of-the-art level.
⑩ All discrepancies must be identified to ensure that all risk factors and
other clinically relevant information are properly identified and
analyzed.
3) Determine whether additional clinical trials or other measures are
necessary
4) Determine whether PMCF is needed
5.9 Clinical Evaluation Report (Step 4)
5.9.1 A clinical evaluation report should be prepared to document the clinical
evaluation and its results.
5.9.2 The clinical evaluation report should provide sufficient detail to enable the
evaluator to understand the search criteria adopted, the relevant data, any
assumptions made, and any conclusions drawn.
5.9.3 The report should be cross-referenced with supporting documentation. The
report should clearly state which statements are supported by which data
and which reflect the evaluator's conclusions or opinions.
5.9.4 References to literature-based materials, including cross-references to
locations in our technical documentation, and to the titles and trial codes of
all clinical trial reports (where relevant and available) should be included.
5.9.5 When a new medical device or technology is developed, the clinical
evaluation report should include an overview of the development process
and the key points in the development cycle during which all clinical data are
generated.
5.9.6 The clinical evaluation report should provide an overview of the various
stages of the clinical evaluation.
5.9.7 The clinical evaluation report applies Annex 9 to 11 of MEDDEV 2.7/1 Rev.4.

Clinical Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP706
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 0
P a g e 17 / 17
1) Annex 9: Clinical Evaluation Report – Table of Contents and Sample
Contents
2) Annex 10: Checklist for Publication of Clinical Evaluation Reports
3) Annex 11: Information on the declaration of interest
5.9.8 The evaluator shall review the clinical evaluation report, verify that the
clinical evaluation report contains appropriate statements regarding the
evaluator's analysis and opinions, and sign the clinical evaluation report.
5.9.9 Clinical evaluation reports must have a date and revision control.
5.10 Post-Market Clinical Follow-Up
5.10.1 PMCF should be understood as a continuous process of updating the clinical
evaluation referred to in Article 61 and Annex XIV Part A of MDR (EU)
2017/745, and details are provided in the Post-Market Surveillance
Regulation (AQP802).
6. Related Form
No Record name Form
number
Management
Department
Storage
period
1 Clinical Evaluation Plan 706-1 Development
Team 10 years
2 Clinical Evaluation Report 706-2 Development
Team 10 years
