queueId: ingest-1781569954416-14ja
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260520 우크라이나(Licarno) 23G, P1 - 이창민 팀장님/260602 추가 제출본/QMS/AQP705 Usability Evaluation Regulation/AQP705_Usability Evaluation Regulation.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/fa1a6254de9c/AQP705_Usability Evaluation Regulation__fa1a6254de9c_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: f5792d17f6a1
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 660

SOURCE_TEXT
0.1
사용적합성 평가 규정
(Usability Evaluation Regulation)
Distinguishment ■ Controlled □ Uncontrolled
H&abyz 41-16, 2Dong, Cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-eup,
Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do
This document is effective from the date of appro.
Name Team Name Date Sign
Written
Jeong
Gyeong
gyun
Quality Management
Team 2024.04.01.
Reviewed - - -
Approved Hur
Nam kyu
Quality Management
Team 2024.04.01.

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 2 / 17
Index
1. Revision History .............................................................................................................................................. 3
2. Purpose............................................................................................................................................................... 4
3. Applied Area .................................................................................................................................................... 4
4. Terms and Definitions.................................................................................................................................. 4
5. Responsibility and Authority..................................................................................................................... 8
6. Work procedures............................................................................................................................................ 9
7. Related Form................................................................................................................................................. 17

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 3 / 17
1. Revision History
No Revision
date Reasons for revision and major revisions Approver
0 2022.09.01.
Newly established to incorporate medical device
quality management standards into our
management system
-
1 2024.04.01.
1) Document number change: AQP718 → AQP705
2) Comprehensive revision to comply with KGMP, EN
ISO 13485:2016+A11:2021, FDA 21 CFR Part 820,
and MDR (EU) 2017/745 Article 10 requirements
Namkyu.Hur

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 4 / 17
2. Purpose
The purpose of this regulation is to be applied in conjunction with the
company's design and development activities. Through usability engineering,
it aims to develop user-centered medical devices, reduce use errors and
associated risks, and enhance the safety and effectiveness of medical
devices.
3. Applied Area
This regulation applies to the overall activities related to the design and
development of products manufactured by the company, including planning,
inputs and outputs, review, verification, validation, drawing control, changes,
and transfer, as well as the basic requirements of the company’s Quality
Management System
4. Terms and Definitions
No. Terms Definition
1 abnormal use
Any deliberate act or omission that runs counter to or
violates normal use and goes beyond the
manufacturer's reasonable means of controlling risks
related to the user interface
2 accompanying
documentation
Materials provided with a medical device and containing
information for users or persons responsible for the
installation, use and maintenance, disposal and disposal
of the medical device, particularly with regard to the
safe use of the medical device
3 correct use Normal use without usage errors
4 effectiveness Refers to the accuracy and completeness with which a
user achieves a specified goal
5 efficiency Resources consumed in relation to validity
6 expected service life
The period of time specified by the manufacturer during
which the medical device is expected to be safe to use
(i.e., maintaining basic safety and essential
performance)

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 5 / 17
7 formative evaluation
A user interface evaluation deliberately conducted to
identify strengths, weaknesses, and unexpected
usability errors in the user interface design.
8 hazard-related use
scenario
Hazardous situations or use scenarios that could cause
harm
9 normal use
Operation and standby conditions, including routine
inspection and adjustment by the user, in accordance
with the instructions for use or generally accepted
practice for medical devices supplied without
instructions for use.
10 patient A person who is subject to internal medicine, surgical
or dental treatment
11 primary operating function Features that involve user interaction related to the
safety of medical devices
12 responsible organization The entity responsible for the use and maintenance of
a medical device or combination of medical devices
13 summative evaluation
Evaluation of the user interface, intentionally
performed at the end of user interface development, to
obtain objective evidence that the user interface can be
used safely.
14 task Interaction between one or more users and a medical
device to achieve a desired result.
15
UOUP, user interface of
unknown provenance/
Unidentified user interface
User interfaces or portions of user interfaces of
previously developed medical devices for which there is
no sufficient documentation of the usability engineering
process.
16 usability
Characteristics of a user interface that establish
effectiveness, efficiency, and user satisfaction in the
intended use environment for ease of use.

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 6 / 17
17 usability engineering /
human factor engineering
Applying knowledge of human behavior, abilities,
limitations, and other characteristics to the design of
medical devices (including software), systems, and
tasks to achieve appropriate usability.
18 usability engineering file A collection of records and related documents produced
in the usability engineering process.
19 usability test
A method for examining or evaluating a user interface
with its intended users within a specific intended use
environment.
20 use environment The actual state and settings in which the user interacts
with the medical device.
21 use error
User actions or omitted user actions while using a
medical device that cause results different from the
manufacturer's intention or the user's expectations.
22 use scenario
A specific sequence of actions performed by a specific
user in a specific usage environment and the
corresponding response of the medical device.
23 use specification /
application specification
Summary of important characteristics relevant to the
context of use of medical devices
24 user A person who interacts with (i.e., operates or handles) a
medical device
25 user group
A subset of users who are distinguished from other
users by factors that may influence their interactions
with medical devices.
26 user profile
A summary of the mental, physical, and demographic
characteristics of the user population, as well as
characteristics such as knowledge, skills, and abilities
that may be relevant to design decisions.
27 user interface A means of interaction between the user and the
medical device
28 user interface
specification
A collection of specifications that comprehensively and
predictably describe the user interface of medical
devices.

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 7 / 17
29 USER INTERFACE
REQUIREMENT
Requirements for Testable Technical Design for User
Interface Features
30 user interface evaluation
The process by which a manufacturer examines or
evaluates the interaction between a user interface and
its users.
31 ALARM CONDITION
The alarm system status when it is determined that there
is a potential or actual hazard situation requiring user
awareness or response.
32 ALARM SIGNAL The type of signal emitted by an alarm system to indicate
the presence (or occurrence) of an alarm condition.
33 ALARM SYSTEM A part of a medical device that detects an alarm condition
and generates an appropriate alarm signal accordingly.
34 CLOSE CALL
If a user almost makes a usage error while performing a
task, but performs it properly so that the usage error
does not occur within the task time.
35 LABELLING
Medical device information refers to written, printed, or
graphic materials containing information related to the
identification, technical description, and use of a medical
device (excluding delivery documents) in the following
formats:
① Directly attached to the medical device or attached to
the medical device container or packaging, etc.
② Accessories to the medical device
36 ACCESSORY
Additional components used with medical devices for the
following purposes:
① To enable the intended use.
② To modify the device for a specific use.
③ To facilitate use.
④ To improve performance.
⑤ To be used in conjunction with other medical devices.
37 USABILITY GOAL The degree to which the interaction between the user
and the medical device is of desirable quality.
38 USABILITY SPECIALIST
A professional who has completed appropriate training,
practice activities, skills and experience to perform
usability engineering activities and has the ability to do
so.
39 SIMULATION
Conceptualization and use of abstractions or models
that operate systematically similar to actual medical
devices.
40
INTENDED USE
/
INTENDED PURPOSE
Use of the product, process or service for its intended
purpose in accordance with the specifications,
instructions and information provided by the
manufacturer.
41 BENEFIT
The positive impact or desired outcome of the use of a
medical device on an individual's health, or the positive
impact on public health or patient care.

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 8 / 17
42 TASK ANALYSIS
Analytics used to determine user goals and specific
actions that must be performed when a user operates a
medical device or performs a task.
43 REASONABLY
FORESEEABLE MISUSE
Refers to the use of a product or system in a way not
intended by the manufacturer, and such use may result
from easily predictable human behavior.
5. Responsibility and Authority
5.1 CEO
1) Ensure provision of human and material resources necessary for usability
assessments.
2) Approval of the results of usability assessment activities.
3) Final approval of the usability report.
5.2 Quality Manager
1) Oversee usability assessment activities.
2) Review and approve usability assessment-related actions.
3) Review usability assessment plans and reports.
5.3 Development Team (※ Concurrently serves as Risk Manager)
1) Implement corrective and preventive measures.
2) Analyze the user interface of developed products.
3) Conduct risk analysis and management activities.
4) Concurrently serve as a risk manager and oversee risk management.
5) Analyze post-production information (feedback, customer complaints,
adverse events, etc.) and determine corrective actions.
6) Conduct usability assessments and perform overall tasks.

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 9 / 17
6. Work procedures
6.1 Preparing the User Specifications
6.1.1 The development team prepares a user specification that includes the
following.
1) Intended medical indication (purpose of use)
2) Intended patient population (medical device users)
3) Type of body part or tissue intended to be applied or interacted with
(site of action)
4) Intended user profile (age group, language spoken, occupation, relevant
medical conditions, etc.)
5) Intended use environment (environment of the location where the
medical device will be used, such as temperature, humidity, and ambient
sound)
6) Principle of operation
6.1.2 The user specifications developed by the development team are reviewed by
the Quality Manager and approved by the CEO. Approved user specifications
are stored in the usability engineering file.
6.2 Identifying safety-related user interface features and potential
usage errors
6.2.1 The development team shall identify user interface features that may be
safety-relevant as part of the risk analysis performed in accordance with ISO
14971:2019, 5.3.
6.2.2 The safety-related user interface characteristics and potential usage errors
can be identified by answering the questions presented in ISO 24971:2020
Annex A, which should include at least the questions presented in A 2.1, 2.9,
2.12, 2.28, 2.29, 2.31-2.37.
6.2.3 The development team should identify potential user interface-related errors
based on the identified user interface characteristics and user specifications.
This identification can be accomplished by conducting a task analysis.
6.2.4 The results of the identification of characteristics related to safety and
potential use errors are reviewed by the Quality Manager, approved by the
CEO, and stored in the usability engineering file.
6.3 Identify known or foreseeable hazards and hazardous situations

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 10 / 17
6.3.1 The development team must identify known or foreseeable hazards and
hazardous situations that could affect patients, users, or others associated
with the use of the medical device.
6.3.2 This identification should be performed as part of the risk analysis (ISO
14971:2019, 5.4) during medical device risk management.
6.3.3 The development team should consider the following while identifying risk
factors and risk situations.
1) User specifications including user profiles (see Section 5.1)
2) Information on known hazards and risk situations in existing user
interfaces for similar types of medical devices, if available
3) Identified usage errors (see Section 5.2)
6.3.4 The results of this identification of risk factors and risk situations are stored
in the usability engineering file.
6.4 Identify and describe use scenarios related to risk factors
6.4.1 The development team shall identify and describe reasonably foreseeable
hazard-related usage scenarios related to the identified hazards and hazard
situations.
6.4.2 The description of each identified risk factor-related usage scenario should
include all operations as well as the severity of the associated risk.
6.5 Selecting Usage Scenarios Related to Risk Factors for Overall
Evaluation
6.5.1 The development team should select factor-relevant usage scenarios to
include in the overall evaluation.
6.5.2 Usage scenarios related to hazard factors can be selected based on the
severity or risk of hazards that may arise from usage errors (see ISO
14971:2019, 5.5)
6.5.3 A summary of the selection technique, the rationale for its use, and the
results of its application are stored in the usability engineering file.

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 11 / 17
6.6 Establishing a User Interface Specification
6.6.1 The development team writes a user interface specification document
designing to eliminate or reduce the risk of errors in use for the scenarios
selected in Section 5.5.
6.6.2 The development team should establish and maintain a user interface
specification document, taking into account the following.
1) User specifications (see Section 5.1)
2) Known or foreseeable use errors related to the medical device (see
Section 5.3)
3) Usage scenarios related to risk factors (see Section 5.4)
6.6.3 The user interface specification must include.
1) User requirements
2) Technical requirements related to the user interface (display color, text
size, etc.)
3) Requirement of supporting documentation
4) Requirement of separate training

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 12 / 17
6.6.4 This activity is related to risk control during risk management, and should
appropriately control risks related to usage errors by using one or more of
the following items listed in order of priority.
1) Design changes to medical devices
2) Establishment of protective measures (supplementary devices) in the
medical device itself or in the manufacturing process
3) Providing information on safety
6.6.5 User interface specifications are stored in the usability engineering file. User
interface specifications can be integrated into other specifications.
6.7 Developing a User Interface Evaluation Plan
6.7.1 General
1) The development team must establish and maintain a user interface
evaluation plan for the user interface.
2) The user interface evaluation plan should.
① Document the purpose and identify planned formative and summative
evaluation methods
② When applying a usability test as an evaluation method
– Document the user population to be included in the test. For
conformance testing, you can combine multiple user profiles into a
user population, such as.
 In formative assessment, clinical personnel, who are employees
of the manufacturer, are used to represent the nurse user group.
 In the summative assessment, the panel of intensive care nurse
practitioners is used to represent the population of critical care
nursing users.
– Document the test environment and other usage conditions based
on the usage specifications
 Specific usage conditions that may affect the user's ability to
perform tasks.
 Conditions of use may include location-related conditions such as
lighting, noise, and activity levels.
 Conditions of use may include personnel-related conditions such
as wearing personal protective equipment (e.g., surgical gloves
and safety glasses) and using medical devices.
 Conditions of use may include social conditions such as stress
levels and team work.
– Regulations on whether supporting documents are provided during
the examination

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 13 / 17

– Whether medical device-related training is provided prior to testing
and the minimum elapsed time between training and the start of
testing
3) There are various methods for evaluating user interfaces and they can be
quantitative or qualitative.
4) User interface evaluation can be performed in several locations, including
a laboratory environment, a virtual user environment, or an actual user
environment.
5) The user interface evaluation plan can be integrated into other plans.
6) The user interface evaluation plan must be stored in the usability
engineering file.
6.7.2 Formative Evaluation Plan
1) Formative evaluation is a stage to evaluate whether there are any
unexpected usage errors and risks associated with the user interface of a
medical device in the early stages of development that have performed
activities in sections 5.1 to 5.6.
2) The development team must conduct formative evaluations at least 2-3
times to identify shortcomings in the user interface and improve them
through the risk control methods in Section 5.6.
3) The user interface evaluation plan for formative assessment should
include the following.
① Evaluation method to be used
② Parts of the user interface to be evaluated
③ Timing of performing each user interface evaluation in the usability
engineering process
4) The plan and results of formative evaluation are stored in a usability
engineering file.
6.7.3 Summative Evaluation Plan
1) The comprehensive evaluation is the final step to check whether actual
use errors occur according to the ‘use scenarios related to risk factors’
selected in Section 5.5 for medical devices that have been subject to
multiple formative evaluations to control risks related to use errors, and to
determine whether use-related risks have been appropriately controlled
and whether the user interface can be used effectively and safely.
2) The development team must include the following in the comprehensive
evaluation plan.
① Basis for producing objective evidence of the evaluation method to be
used and the method
– The overall evaluation of safety information may require different
methods than other parts of the user interface.

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 14 / 17
② Parts of the user interface to be evaluated
③ Where applicable, criteria for determining whether safety information
can be perceived and understood and whether this information
supports the proper use of the medical device
– The overall evaluation of safety information is typically completed
before the overall evaluation of the rest of the user interface begins.
This is usually a separate usability test conducted by other users.
④ Provision of usability and training of attached documents during
comprehensive evaluation
– Summative assessments can appropriately incorporate training as
part of the plan to simulate real-world use. To account for typical
learning forgetting, an appropriate waiting period may be necessary
between the training and the remainder of the summative
assessment.
⑤ Usability testing
– How the test participant's characteristics represent the intended
user profile
– Justify how test participants are grouped into individual user groups
to determine the number of test participants
– Theoretical basis for how to appropriately represent the test
environment and conditions of use, and the intended use
environment
– Definition of correct usage for each risk factor-related usage
scenario
– How to collect data during usability testing for subsequent analysis
of observed usage errors and difficulty of use
6.8 Design, implement, and conduct formative evaluation of the user
interface
6.8.1 The development team conducts formative evaluations in accordance with
the formative evaluation plan in Section 5.7.2, along with the design and
implementation of the user interface, in the early stages of medical device
development.
6.8.2 The development team shall design and implement the user interface,
including any supporting documentation (if required) and training capabilities
(if required) specified in the user interface specification.
6.8.3 The development team should achieve this design and implementation by
appropriately utilizing usability engineering methods and techniques,

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 15 / 17
including formative evaluation. The results of the formative evaluation
should be stored in a usability engineering file.
6.8.4 If a new usage scenario involving a use error, risk, hazard, or risk factor is
discovered during this step, the risk for the use error must be controlled and
the activities of this regulation must be repeated as appropriate.
6.8.5 If training for a specific medical device is required for the intended users to
use the device safely, training capabilities must be designed and
implemented for the expected useful life of the medical device by performing
one or more of the following.
1) Provision of materials necessary for training
2) Ensure availability of materials necessary for training
3) Regulations to enable training
4) The organization responsible for training users shall be established to
enable training
6.9 Conduct a comprehensive usability evaluation of the user interface
6.9.1 When the development team completes the design and implementation of
the user interface, it conducts a comprehensive evaluation according to the
user interface evaluation plan.
6.9.2 A comprehensive evaluation of each risk factor-related use scenario selected
in Section 5.5 is conducted for the final or equivalent user interface to be
produced to finally assess whether the risks of use errors identified in the
previous steps have been effectively controlled and whether the usability of
the medical device has been secured.
6.9.3 For summative evaluations, the user interface may use data obtained from
summative evaluations of the same product, together with a technical
justification for applying this data.
6.9.4 The development team must analyze the overall evaluation data and identify
any usage errors and difficulties encountered.
1) If a usage error or difficulty in use could lead to a hazardous situation,
the root cause of such usage error or difficulty in use must be
determined.
2) The root cause should be determined based on methods including
observation of user performance as well as the user's subjective opinion.
3) If new usage errors, hazards, hazardous situations, or usage scenarios
related to hazards are discovered during this data analysis, the activities
outlined in this regulation should be repeated as appropriate. Otherwise,

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 16 / 17
it should be determined whether improvements to the safety-related user
interface design are necessary and feasible.
① If improvements to the user interface design related to safety are
necessary and feasible, re-perform the usability engineering process in
Section 5.6.
② If improvements to the user interface design related to safety are not
necessary or feasible, perform the following.
– Document the reasons why improvement is not needed or cannot
be implemented
– Identification of data from the usability engineering process needed
to determine the residual risk associated with use
– Residual risk assessment (see ISO 14971:2019, 7.3)
6.9.5 The plan and results of the summative evaluation should be stored in the
usability engineering file.
6.9.6 If the usability engineering process detailed in this regulation has been
followed, the usability of a medical device with respect to safety is
considered acceptable unless there is objective evidence to the contrary.
1) Objective evidence can arise from post-production surveillance.
6.10 Evaluation of User Interfaces of Unknown Origin (UOUP)
6.10.1 For user interfaces or user interface parts that do not have adequate
development records using the usability engineering process of IEC 62366-
1:2015, the process of 5.10.2 applies. However, if the user interface or part
thereof is modified, only the unchanged portion of the user interface shall be
maintained as a UOUP, and the modified portion of the user interface shall
comply with 5.1 through 5.9 of this standard.
6.10.2 Usability Engineering Process for User Interfaces of Unknown Origin
1) User specifications
① Establish a usage specification in accordance with the requirements of
Article 5.1 of these regulations.
2) Review of post-production information
① Review available post-production information, including field reports of
complaints and incidents or non-incidents regarding UOUP medical
devices.
② All identified cases of usage errors that could cause hazardous
situations, or cases where hazardous factors or hazardous situations
suggested by field information could occur due to improper usability,

Usability Evaluation
Regulation
Document No AQP705
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 1
P a g e 17 / 17
should be stored in the usability engineering file and addressed in
5.10.2 3) ~ 4).
3) Risk factors and risk situations related to usability
① Review the risk analysis of the UOUP medical device and confirm that
the risk factors and risk situations related to suitability for use have
been identified and documented.
4) Risk control
① Confirm and document that appropriate risk control measures have
been implemented for all identified risk factors and risk situations, and
that all risk factors have been reduced to an acceptable level based on
the risk assessment.
② If you decide to change a part of the user interface to reduce the risk
to an acceptable level, the changed part is not considered a UOUP and
is subject to the requirements of clauses 5.1 to 5.9.
5) Residual risk assessment
① Re-evaluate the overall residual risk based on the new information
identified by performing 5.10.2.3) ~ 4) and document the results in
the usability engineering file or risk management file.
7. Related Form
No Record name Form
number
Management
Department
Storage
period
1 Usability Engineering Plan 705-1 Development
Team 10 years
2 Usability Engineering Report 705-2 Development
Team 10 years
