queueId: ingest-1781569954415-13if
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/11_Audit F-up/240415-17 ISO 갱신심사 & 2,3G MDR 심사 - 3EC/MDR 심사_경부적합 보완/A-TCF-5-103 Risk Management Plan Rev.4 220424.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/f20c2307925b/A-TCF-5-103 Risk Management Plan Rev.4 220424__f20c2307925b_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: bc68cd37280d
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 692

SOURCE_TEXT
Risk Management Plan

for

A1717MCW / A1417MCW / F1417MCW

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Product name: Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model name: A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW

Name

Position

Date

Signature

Prepared by

Kim, Kihyun

R&D team

April 22, 2024

Reviewed by

Lee, Dong jin

R&D Manager

April 22, 2024

Approved by

Hur Namkyu

Quality Manager

April 22, 2024

Revision History

Revision No.

Rev. Date

Revision Description

0

Sep/26/2022

Establishment

1

Nov/30/2022

Applied EN ISO 14971:2019

2

Oct/20/2023

Response to 1st review by 3EC (NB)

3

Mar/8/2024

Response to 2nd review by 3EC (NB)

4

Apr/22/2024

Added the evidence for estimating the probability of occurrence of harm.

Contents

1. Introduction 4

2. Normative references 5

3. Terms and Definitions 6

4. Scope of the Planned Risk Management Activities 13

5. Criteria to analyze and evaluation the acceptability of risk 21

6 Evaluation of overall residual risk 25

7 Verification Activities 26

8 Activities Related to Collection and Review of Relevant Production and post-production information 28

Introduction

Among the accessories of the Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector can be selected between A1717MCW, A1417MCW and F1417MCW.

Performance and usage are all the same except for size, so there is no difference in 'Usability'.

(A-TCF -5-159)

This is a document for the H&abyz Co., Ltd. to establish and document a risk management plan in accordance with the risk management procedure.

This plan includes the following:

the scope of the planned risk management activities, identifying and describing the medical device and the life cycle phases for which each element of the plan is applicable;

assignment of responsibilities and authorities;

requirements for review of risk management activities;

criteria for risk acceptability, based on the manufacturer's policy for determining acceptable risk, including criteria for accepting risks when the probability of occurrence of harm cannot be estimated;

a method to evaluate the overall residual risk, and criteria for acceptability of the overall residual risk based on the manufacturer's policy for determining acceptable risk;

activities for verification of the implementation and effectiveness of risk control measures; and

activities related to collection and review of relevant production and post-production information.

If the plan changes during the life cycle of the medical device, a record of the changes shall be maintained in the risk management file.

Compliance is checked by inspection of the risk management file.

Normative references

Applicable national and regional regulations

No.

Region

Applicable national and regional regulations

1

European Union

Regulation (EU) 2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2017

Relevant standards

No.

Standard

Title

1

EN ISO 13485:2016/A11:2021

Medical devices - Quality management systems - Requirements for regulatory purposes (ISO 13485:2016)

2

EN ISO 14971:2019

Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices (ISO 14971:2019)

3

EN 15223-1:2021

Medical devices - Symbols to be used with information to be supplied by the manufacturer – Part 1: General requirements (ISO 15223-1:2021)

4

IEC 60601-1:2006/AMD1:2013

Medical electrical equipment Part 1: General requirement for basic safety and essential performance

5

IEC 60601-1-2:2015

Medical electrical equipment Part1-2: General requirements Section1.2 Collateral standard: Electromagnetic compatibility

6

EN 60601-1-6:2010+A1:2015

IEC 60601-1-6:2010/AMD1:2013

Medical electrical equipment Part 1-6: General requirements for safety – Collateral standard: Usability

7

EN 62304:2006+AM1[2015]

IEC 62304:2006+AM1[2015]

Medical device software life-cycle process

8

EN 62366-1:2015

IEC 62366-1:2015

Medical devices – Application of usability engineering to medical devices

9

EN 20417:2021

Medical devices - Information to be supplied by the manufacturer (ISO 20417:2021, Corrected version 2021-12)

10

EN ISO 10993-1:2020

Biological evaluation of medical devices - Part 1: Evaluation and testing within a risk management process (ISO 10993-1:2018, including corrected version 2018-10)

11

ISO 15223-1:2021

Medical devices — Symbols to be used with information to be supplied by the manufacturer — Part 1: General requirements

12

IEC 62368-1:2018 and EN IEC 62368-1:2020+A11:2020

Audio/video, information and communication technology equipment - Part 1: Safety requirements

13

EN 62311:2020

Assessment of electronic and electrical equipment related to human exposure restrictions for electromagnetic fields (0 Hz - 300 GHz)

14

ETSI EN 300 328 V2.2.2

Wideband transmission systems; Data transmission equipment operating in the 2,4 GHz band; Harmonised Standard for access to radio spectrum

15

ETSI EN 301 893 V2.1.1

5 GHz RLAN; Harmonised Standard covering the essential requirements of article 3.2 of Directive 2014/53/EU

16

ETSI EN 300 440 V2.2.1

Short Range Devices (SRD); Radio equipment to be used in the 1 GHz to 40 GHz frequency range; Harmonised Standard for access to radio spectrum

17

EN 301 489-1 V2.2.3

ElectroMagnetic Compatibility (EMC) standard for radio equipment and services; Part 1: Common technical requirements; Harmonised Standard for ElectroMagnetic Compatibility

18

EN 301 489-3 V2.3.2

ElectroMagnetic Compatibility (EMC) standard for radio equipment and services; Part 3: Specific conditions for Short Range Devices (SRD) operating on frequencies between 9 kHz and 246 GHz; Harmonised Standard for ElectroMagnetic Compatibility

19

EN 301 489-17 V3.2.6

ElectroMagnetic Compatibility (EMC) standard for radio equipment and services; Part 17: Specific conditions for Broadband Data Transmission System; Harmonised Standard for ElectroMagnetic Compatibility

Relevant guidelines

No.

Guideline

Title

1

ISO/TR 24971:2020

Medical devices – Guidance of the application of ISO 14971

2

MEDDEV 2.7/1 Rev.4

Clinical Evaluation

3

MEDDEV 2.12/1 Rev.8

Guidelines on Medical devices Vigilance System

4

MEDDEV 2.12/2 Rev.2

Post Market Clinical Follow-up Studies

5

MDCG 2021-24

Guidance on classification of medical devices

6

MDCG 2020-7

Guidance on PMCF evaluation report template

7

MDCG 2020-8

Guidance on PMCF plan template

8

Radio Equipment Directive 2014/53/EU

Terms and Definitions

For the purposes of this document, the following terms and definitions apply. ISO and IEC maintain terminological databases for use in standardization at the following addresses:

– ISO Online browsing platform: available at https://www.iso.org/obp

– IEC Electropedia: available at http://www.electropedia.org/

3.1 accompanying documentation

materials accompanying a medical device (3.10) and containing information for the user or those accountable for the installation, use, maintenance, decommissioning and disposal of the medical device (3.10), particularly regarding safe use

Note 1 to entry: The accompanying documentation can consist of the instructions for use, technical description, installation manual, quick reference guide, etc.

Note 2 to entry: Accompanying documentation is not necessarily a written or printed document but could involve auditory, visual, or tactile materials and multiple media types.

3.2 benefit

positive impact or desirable outcome of the use of a medical device (3.10) on the health of an individual, or a positive impact on patient management or public health

Note 1 to entry: Benefits can include positive impact on clinical outcome, the patient's quality of life, outcomes related to diagnosis, positive impact from diagnostic devices on clinical outcomes, or positive impact on public health.

3.3 harm

injury or damage to the health of people, or damage to property or the environment

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.1]

3.4 hazard

potential source of harm (3.3)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.2]

3.5 hazardous situation

circumstance in which people, property or the environment is/are exposed to one or more hazards (3.4)

Note 1 to entry: See Annex C for an explanation of the relationship between hazard and hazardous situation.

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.3, modified - Note 1 to entry added.]

3.6 intended use / intended purpose

use for which a product, process (3.14) or service is intended according to the specifications, instructions and information provided by the manufacturer (3.9)

Note 1 to entry: The intended medical indication, patient population, part of the body or type of tissue interacted with, user profile, use environment, and operating principle are typical elements of the intended use.

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.4]

3.7 in vitro diagnostic medical device / IVD medical device

device, whether used alone or in combination, intended by the manufacturer (3.9) for the in vitro examination of specimens derived from the human body solely or principally to provide information for diagnostic, monitoring or compatibility purposes and including reagents, calibrators, control materials, specimen receptacles, software, and related instruments or apparatus or other articles

[SOURCE: ISO 18113-1:2009, 3.27, modified-NOTE deleted.]

3.8 life cycle

series of all phases in the life of a medical device (3.10), from the initial conception to final decommissioning and disposal

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.51]

3.9 manufacturer

natural or legal person with responsibility for the design and/or manufacture of a medical device (3.10) with the intention of making the medical device (3.10) available for use, under his name, whether or not such a medical device (3.10) is designed and/or manufactured by that person himself or on his behalf by another person(s)

Note 1 to entry: The natural or legal person has ultimate legal responsibility for ensuring compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements for the medical device in the countries or jurisdictions where it is intended to be made available or sold, unless this responsibility is specifically imposed on another person by the Regulatory Authority (RA) within that jurisdiction.

Note 2 to entry: The manufacturer's responsibilities are described in other GHTF guidance documents. These responsibilities include meeting both pre-market requirements and post-market requirements, such as adverse event reporting and notification of corrective actions.

Note 3 to entry: "Design and/or manufacture may include specification development, production, fabrication, assembly, processing, packaging, repackaging, labelling, relabelling, sterilization, installation, or remanufacturing of a medical device; or putting a collection of devices, and possibly other products, together for a medical purpose.

Note 4 to entry: Any person who assembles or adapts a medical device that has already been supplied by another person for an individual patient, in accordance with the instructions for use, is not the manufacturer, provided the assembly or adaptation does not change the intended use of the medical device.

Note 5 to entry: Any person who changes the intended use of, o r modifies, a medical device without acting on behalf of the original manufacturer and who makes it available for use under his own name, should be considered the manufacturer of the modified medical device.

Note 6 to entry: An authorised representative, distributor or importer who only adds its own address and contact details to the medical device or the packaging, without covering or changing the existing labelling, is not considered a manufacturer.

Note 7 to entry: To the extent that an accessory is subject to the regulatory requirements of a medical device, the person responsible for the design and/or manufacture of that accessory is considered to be a manufacturer.

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.6]

3.10 medical device

instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, appliance, implant, reagent for in vitro use, software, material or other similar or related article, intended by the manufacturer (3.9) to be used, alone or in combination, for human beings, for one or more of the specific medical purpose(s) of

– diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of disease, – diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, alleviation of or compensation for an injury,

– investigation, replacement, modification, or support of the anatomy or of a physiological process,

– supporting or sustaining life,

– control of conception,

– disinfection of medical devices (3.10),

– providing information by means of in vitro examination of specimens derived from the human body,

and which does not achieve its primary intended action by pharmacological, immunological or metabolic means, in or on the human body, but which may be assisted in its function by such means

Note 1 to entry: Products which can be considered to be medical devices in some jurisdictions but not in others include:

– disinfection substances

– aids for persons with disabilities;

– devices incorporating animal and/or human tissues;

– devices for in vitro fertilization or assisted reproduction technologies.

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.7]

3.11 objective evidence

data supporting the existence or verity of something

Note 1 to entry: Objective evidence can be obtained through observation, measurement, test or by other means.

[SOURCE: ISO 9000:2015, 3.8.3, modified - Note 2 to entry deleted.]

3.12 post-production

part of the life cycle (3.8) of the medical device (3.10) after the design has been completed and the medical device (3.10) has been manufactured

EXAMPLE Transportation, storage, installation, product use, maintenance, repair, product changes, decommissioning and disposal.

3.13 procedure

specified way to carry out an activity or a process (3.14)

Note 1 to entry: Procedures can be documented or not. [SOURCE: ISO 9000:2015, 3.4.5]

3.14 process

set of interrelated or interacting activities that use inputs to deliver an intended result

Note 1 to entry: Whether the "intended result of a process is called output, product or service depends on the context of the reference.

Note 2 to entry: Inputs to a process are generally the outputs of other processes and outputs of a process are generally the inputs to other processes.

Note 3 to entry: Two or more interrelated and interacting processes in series can also be referred to as a process.

[SOURCE: ISO 9000:2015, 3.4.1, modified - Notes to entry 4, 5 and 6 are deleted.

3.15 reasonably foreseeable misuse

use of a product or system in a way not intended by the manufacturer (3.9), but which can result from readily predictable human behaviour

Note 1 to entry: Readily predictable human behaviour includes the behaviour of all types of users, e.g. lay and professional users.

Note 2 to entry: Reasonably foreseeable misuse can be intentional or unintentional.

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.8]

3.16 record

document stating results achieved or providing evidence of activities performed

Note 1 to entry: Records can be used, for example, to formalize traceability and to provide evidence of verification, preventive action and corrective action.

Note 2 to entry: Generally records need not be under revision control.

[SOURCE: ISO 9000:2015, 3.8.10]

3.17 residual risk

risk remaining after risk control (3.21) measures have been implemented

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019,3.9]

3.18 risk

combination of the probability of occurrence of harm (3.3) and the severity (3.27) of that harm (3.3)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.10, modified — Note 1 to entry deleted.]

3.19 risk analysis

systematic use of available information to identify hazards (3.4) and to estimate the risk (3.18)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.11]

3.20 risk assessment

overall process (3.14) comprising a risk analysis (3.19) and a risk evaluation (3.20)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 51:2014, 3.11]

3.21 risk control

process (3.14) in which decisions are made and measures implemented by which risks (3.18) are reduced to, or maintained within, specified levels

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.12]

3.22 risk estimation

process (3.14) used to assign values to the probability of occurrence of harm (3.3) and the severity (3.27) of that harm

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.13]

3.23 risk evaluation

process (3.14) of comparing the estimated risk (3.18) against given risk (3.18) criteria to determine the acceptability of the risk (3.18)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.14]

3.24 risk management

systematic application of management policies, procedures (3.13) and practices to the tasks of analysing, evaluating, controlling and monitoring risk (3.18)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.15]

3.25 risk management file

set of records (3.16) and other documents that are produced by risk management (3.24)

3.26 safety

freedom from unacceptable risk (3.18)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.10]

3.27 severity

measure of the possible consequences of a hazard (3.4)

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.17]

3.28 state of the art

developed stage of technical capability at a given time as regards products, processes (3.14) and services, based on the relevant consolidated findings of science, technology and experience

Note 1 to entry: The state of the art embodies whatis currently and generally accepted as good practice in technology and medicine. The state of the art does not necessarily imply the most technologically advanced solution. The state of the art described here is sometimes referred to as the "generally acknowledged state of the art".

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.18]

3.29 top management

person or group of people who directs and controls a manufacturer (3.9) at the highest level

[SOURCE: ISO 9000:2015, 3.1.1, modified — "An organization" replaced by "a manufacturer", Notes to entry deleted.]

3.30 use error

user action or lack of user action while using the medical device (3.10) that leads to a different result than that intended by the manufacturer (3.9) or expected by the user

Note 1 to entry: Use error includes the inability of the user to complete a task.

Note 2 to entry: Use errors can result from a mismatch between the characteristics of the user, user interface, task, or use environment.

Note 3 to entry: Users might be aware or unaware that a use error has occurred.

Note 4 to entry: An unexpected physiological response of the patient is not by itself considered use error.

Note 5 to entry: A malfunction of a medical device that causes an unexpected result is not considered a use error.

[SOURCE: IEC 62366-1:2015, 3.21, modified - Note 6 to entry deleted.]

3.31 Verification

confirmation, through the provision of objective evidence (3.11), that specified requirements have been fulfilled

Note 1 to entry: The objective evidence needed for a verification can be the result of an inspection or of other forms of determination such as performing alternative calculations or reviewing documents.

Note 2 to entry: The activities carried out for verification are sometimes called a qualification process.

Note 3 to entry: The word "verified" is used to designate the corresponding status.

[SOURCE: ISO/IEC Guide 63:2019, 3.19]

Scope of the Planned Risk Management Activities

This Risk management plan is applicable to all stages of the life cycle of the A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW.

This document also describes risk management process, assignment for responsibilities and authorities.

General descriptions of the product

General details

The A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW are wired or wireless digital flat panel detectors that have been designed for faster, more streamlined approach to digital radiography systems. The detector consists of TFT and Scintillator (CsI) and an electronic device that converts data read through it into digital signals. The detectors support an auto exposure detection technology that allows the detectors to be used without generator integration.

The flat panel sensors of the A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW are fabricated using thin film technology based on amorphous silicon technology. Electronically, the sensors are much like conventional photodiode arrays. Each pixel in the array consists of a light‐sensing photodiode and a switching Thin Film Transistor (TFT) in the same electronic circuit. The amorphous silicon photodiode is sensitive to visual light, and its response curve has almost the same performance as human vision. The sensitivity of amorphous silicon photodiodes peaks in green wavelengths, well matched to scintillators such as CsI. It also has excellent linearity according to the exposure dose

Product Name

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model Name

A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW

Classification

IIb

Expected service life

Approximately 5 years

Intended Purpose

The A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW is indicated for digital imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic systems and provide more precise case diagnosis and treatment planning on a real time basis for physicians and radiologists.

Operating Principle

The X-ray output from the X-ray generator passes through the object to be photographed and is then converted into a digital signal through the detector to be output to the image signal. X-rays weaken in dense tissue such as bones, and soft tissue uses the principle of easy passage to adjust the brightness of the image to express the signal.

The indirect type detector consists of a Scintillator for converting X-rays into visible light and a TFT panel for converting them into data. A TFT array consists of glass sheets covered with a thin layer of silicon that is amorphous or disordered, and silicon is engraved with millions of transistors arranged in higher order like a grid of graph paper. Each of these thin-film transistors (TFTs) is attached to a light-absorbing photodiode that makes up individual pixels, and visible light entering the photodiode is converted by intensity into a digital signal and output to the screen in a readable digital image.

Essential performances

Manufacturer shall identify which functions are Essential Performance.

- Acquisition image is obtained as intended.

- The acquired image should not have two lines adjacent or be blank.

- Operation normally when operation is required.

- DC power is consistently supplied from POWER SUPPLY when EMC test is performed.

- When connected to POWER SUPPLY, program provided by manufacturer is operated normally.

Refer to A-TCF-5-149 Product description for getting more detailed information on the medical device.

Life-cycle phases for the risk management

Descriptions of life-cycle phases

Life cycle phase

Risk management phase

Design and development planning (1)

It analyzes the risks in the design and development stage, and estimates the risk in both normal and fault conditions for each detected risk. Determining whether to reduce the risk, the results are used as part of the input design. All activities of Design and development planning phase is performed by technical specialists including development manager and quality manager.

Risk management plan

Design input (2)

Design input includes the intended use and functional, performance, safety and regulatory requirements. The foreseeable hazards are obtained through relevant standards, monitoring database and test reports. The results of risk management measures shall be provided in the design and development process.

Risk analysis

Risk evaluation

Risk control

Design output (3)

It designed to reflect the requirements in the design output phase and reflects the application of the specific risk control measures and these measures.

Design review (4)

After completion of the design output, the R&D manager meets the design input requirements by conducting a design review, and conduct a risk analysis, risk assessment, risk management and residual risk assessment.

Design verification (5)

For the design verification, the prototype should be verified through product testing and be met the requirements in the design input. R&D manager should produce the objective data to ensure that the effects of risk management measures verification and the final result.

Design validation (6)

For design validation, the medical devices should be evaluated through comprehensive opinions including simulation and the opinions of experts. Medical device meets the user's needs and the intended use, it must make sure that the overall residual risk is acceptable meet the full criteria. To increase the reliability to include a number of sizes and can use all the intended use of sufficient.

Overall residual risk evaluation

Design transfer (7)

After validation and transfer the design to the production department for the production.

Risk management report

Production (8)

Production, measurement and monitoring equipment should be established the suitability, cleaning, maintenance and calibration cycle with reference to the risk associated in the process. Work environment and employees should be controlled by the risk management measures, it should be documented and evaluated periodically.

Production and postproduction information

Post-production

Information (9)

In step after production, the manufacturer shall collect and maintain information and documentation on similar devices being or production for this product. Post-production Information should be collected through the collection methods such as surveys, customer satisfaction surveys, customer complaints (Internet, telephone, etc.), or articles or news reports.

Monitoring (10)

Base on post-production information, it is determined whether the identified hazard and hazardous situations are not recognized previously. The estimated risk is determined whether they can no longer be permitted. If applicable to any of the above conditions to evaluate the effect on the risk management activities to be executed before the input to the feedback information of the risk management process. If there are residual risk, or possibility of changing the potential of what has allowed, to be evaluated for the effect on the risk control measures performed.

Risk management process

The risk management process is performed according to the risk management procedure and the risk management plan, as the followings;

Assignment of Responsibilities and Authorities

Risk management procedure associated with the risk management activities should assign the responsibilities and authorities as follows, and the representatives of the risk management shall comply with the qualification criteria.

Assignment of personnel

Step

Detailed steps

Responsible

Dept. / Position

Name

Risk management plan

Establish procedures for risk analysis

Risk acceptance criteria and the authority responsible for setting

R&D Manager

Lee, Dong jin

Risk analysis

Intended use and reasonably foreseeable misuse

Identification of characteristics related to safety

Identification of hazards and hazardous situations

Risk estimation

R&D Engineer

Kim, Kihyun

Risk evaluation

Risk evaluation

R&D Engineer

Kim, Kihyun

Risk control

Risk control option analysis

Implementation of risk control measures

Residual risk evaluation

Benefit-risk analysis

Risk arising from risk control measures

Completeness of risk control

R&D Engineer

Kim, Kihyun

Evaluation of overall residual risk

All residual risk assessment

R&D Manager

Lee, Dong jin

Risk management report

Risk management report writing and review

R&D Engineer

Kim, Kihyun

Post-production

Post-production collect

R&D Engineer

Kim, Kihyun

Risk management report written to reflect the post-production information

R&D Manager

Lee, Dong jin

Final review and approved

Risk management final review

R&D Manager

Lee, Dong jin

Risk management final approved

QM Representative

Hur Namkyu

Qualification of personnel

Role

Qualification

Responsibility

R&D Director

Satisfy one or more of the following conditions: More than 1 year experience in this companyMore than 3 years’ experience in the similar work and similar industriesMore than section chief.

Approval of Risk management plan/ report

QMR

Satisfy one or more of the following conditions: More than 1 year experience in this company and at least 1 week training as a quality management staff in this companyMore 1 year experience in the similar work and similar industriesMore than 3 months training as a quality management staff in this company.

Review risk management plan/ report

Manufacturing Manager

Satisfy three or more of the following conditions:More than 1 year experience in this companyMore than 2 departments experience in this companyMore than section chief.More than 3 years’ experience in the similar work and similar industriesTo be recognized as a manufacturing manager by CEO

Consider hazard during manufacturing

Sales manager(Responsible forCustomercomplaints)

More than 1 year experience in sales or in customer complaint handling task

Gather customer complaints from the field and analysis

Requirements for Review of Risk Management Activities

NO

Step

Requirement

1

Design and development input

Selection of the Materials, parts

Use and selection of the standard

Use and selection of the tolerance

The reliability, safety, and analyze the expected performance of the

Evaluation of a new technology, components, materials and processes

Safety Requirements (product specifications, and related notices and regulations, etc.)

Risk Analysis (Risk Analysis)

2

Design and development output

It can be documented in a validation or verification method so as to satisfy the input requirements of the design and development

It shall contain or reference the measurable criteria, such as maximum and minimum value, tolerance.

It should reflect the requirements of the safety precautions on such as safety displays, warning measures.

To demonstrate the safety of the product such as work, storage, handling, maintenance and disposal shall determine the appropriate function key design characteristics.

3

Design and development review

Criterial of Design and Development Review

List of reviewed documents

The design and development meet the requirements evidence

Determination of whether to proceed even to the next step

records the contents of the modified

Reason for Revision and suggestions

4

Design Verification

To validate the product design standards

The purpose of plan

The procedure to be performed and specification (spec)

Identify the model used to prove design requirements

Description the verification activities

Description of the equipment and test equipment used Verification Activities

calendar (time scale)

About verify the field description

Description of the verification activities Attendant

Description of the recording, standard, specification, procedures

5

Design Validation

documentation and data review

Used recording collection and analysis of similar products

Product validation and confirmation by survey after Field Test

6

Production

Compliance of equipment, establishment of maintenance and calibration cycle

Information of including nonconformity rate, rework rate, disposal rate, passing rates and other sources of quality data

Impact of risk management measures caused to the product of the staff and task environment

7

Packing and Delivery

Impact according to inadvertent handle

Improper packing, display

The risks which can cause improper transportation, storage and delivery

8

Post-production

Production and processor management

Corrective and Preventive Action

service, and feedback information

9

Monitoring

information about the competitor’s device

Information about the medical device similar to the release of on the market

presented information (recall, medical device report, Safety information Side Effects Report)

scientific literature

Criteria to analyze and evaluation the acceptability of risk

We define and document the policy for determining criteria for risk acceptability;

This policy shall ensure that criteria are based upon applicable national or regional regulations and relevant International Standards, and take into account available information such as the generally accepted state of the art and known stakeholder concerns.

Follow the AQP712 Risk Management Regulations for detailed instructions.

Probability of occurrence and the severity of possible harm

Probability estimate

The likelihood that a hazardous situation will lead to harm is influenced by the life-cycle of the medical device and estimated number of devices in the market.

We use commonly employed seven approaches to estimate probabilities:

- Use of relevant historical data;

- Predication of probabilities using analytical or simulation techniques;

- Use of experimental data;

- Reliability estimates;

- Production and post-production information;

- use of expert judgment

The probability is estimated by the events and likelihood together by the expert.

Step

Probability

Points to consider / Likelihood

5

Patient harm will be caused by the inappropriate medical decision or action.

How urgent is an immediate decision or intervention for the patient?

What are the medical consequences of the inappropriate action or delay in taking necessary action?

To what extent would the condition of the patient increase the probability of occurrence of harm?

Frequent

>1

4

An incorrect medical decision and/or intervention (or lack of intervention) will occur due to the incorrect result.

Are the results used for diagnosis, therapy or monitoring?

Will the result be the primary basis for a particular medical decision? Or only used in the context of signs, symptoms, other examination results and the patient’s medical history?

Probable

1 ~ 10-1

3

A clinically significant delay in reporting the examination result (or ancillary patient information) would occur.

Is the result critical for a timely diagnosis or therapeutic decision?

Could a second examination be performed and the result be reported within the time required for a critical result?

Occasional

10-1 ~ 10-2

2

A device failure or use error

How effective are prevention/detection measures?

Would frequency depend on use environment?

Can specific faults, failure modes and/or use errors occur in a reasonably foreseeable combination to cause a hazard?

Remote

10-2 ~ 10-4

1

There is no risk to concern

There is no possibility of occurrence

Improbable

10-4 ~ 10-6

Please refer to “Estimating the probability of occurrence of harm(A-TCF-5-103-1)”

Severity

Judgments are made on the relative values for the severity levels. The levels of severity are defined in table below.

Severity levels are chosen and justified based on the harms that could result for a particular medical device.

Severity levels

Definition

5

Catastrophic

Death of patient, irreversible failure or disaster

4

Critical

Causing permanent damage or fatal injury

3

Serious

Injury or damage that requires professional medical technology

2

Minor

Temporary injury that does not require professional medical treatment

1

Negligible

Discomfort, temporary difficulty

Criteria for Risk Acceptability

Two risk regions

- The combination of the probability and severity of the matrix approach is used.

- All estimated risks are considered by its risk region and divided into two risk regions.

Figure (1) and Table (1) show two-region risk and risk control policy. Each risk regions are controlled different forces as its risk level. All risks should be controlled to the acceptable region until all individual risks are acceptable and the risk control process follows the EN ISO 14971:2019.

Figure (1) Two-region risk

Table (1) Risk acceptability policy for risk region

Risk

Means

Policy

Acceptable Risk (A)

Low or Moderate risk

Do risk control as far as possible

Unacceptable Risk (U)

Unacceptable risk

Project cancellation or device redesign

Risk calculation method

- Risk level = Severity rating × Probability rating

Risk acceptability policy and risk matrix

Table (2) and (3) shows risk matrix and risk acceptability policy. Risk matrix is also divided two regions as like Figure (1)

Green region and Red region are matched with “Acceptable Risk (A)” and “Unacceptable Risk (U)”.

Table (2) Risk evaluation matrix

Severity

Probability

Negligible

(1)

Minor

(2)

Serious

(3)

Critical

(4)

Catastrophic

(5)

Frequent

(5)

5

10

15

20

25

Probable

(4)

4

8

12

16

20

Occasional

(3)

3

6

9

12

15

Remote

(2)

2

4

6

8

10

Improbable

(1)

1

2

3

4

5

Table (3) Risk acceptability policy

Estimated risk

Risk region

Description of region

Risk Level: 1~4

Green, Acceptable Risk (A)

Acceptable region

Risk Level: 5~25

Red, Unacceptable Risk (U)

Unacceptable region

Evaluation of overall residual risk

General

After all risk control measures have been implemented and verified, the manufacturer shall evaluate the overall residual risk posed by the medical device, taking into account the contributions of all residual risks, in relation to the benefits of the intended use, using the method and the criteria for acceptability of the overall residual risk defined in the risk management plan.

If the overall residual risk is judged acceptable, the manufacturer shall inform users of significant residual risks and shall include the necessary information in the accompanying documentation in order to disclose those residual risks.

If the overall residual risk is not judged acceptable in relation to the benefits of the intended use, the manufacturer may consider implementing additional risk control measures (go back to 7.1) or modifying the medical device or its intended use (go back to 5.2). Otherwise, the overall residual risk remains unacceptable.

Input and other consideration

The evaluation of overall residual risk can take input and consideration into account.

The results of the design validation, usability studies, clinical evaluations and clinical investigations can provide useful information about the overall residual risk.

Possible approaches

The H&abyz Co., Ltd. compares the A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW under consideration to similar medical devices available on the market.

The key question is whether the medical device under consideration has an acceptable overall residual risk in relation to the medical benefits, in comparison to similar medical devices.

Residual risks posed by the medical device be compared individually to corresponding risks for similar medical devices, taking account of differences in the intended use.

Up-to-date information on intended use and adverse events of similar medical devices should be carefully reviewed, as well as information from scientific literature, including information about clinical experience.

Verification Activities

The risk management verification activities shall be performed in accordance with the product life cycle phases.

Risk management phase

Sub-phase

Reference document for verification

Output

Responsible

Team / person

Name

Risk management plan

The scope of the risk management plan

Quality management systems

Risk management plan

R&D manager

Lee, Dong jin

Assignment of responsibilities and authorities

Requirements for review of risk management activities

Criteria for risk acceptability

Verification activities

Activities related to collection and review of relevant production and post-production information

Risk analysis

Intended use and identification of characteristics related to the safety of the medical device

Product related national and international standards

Product related information, including side effects

Risk analysis data

R&D engineer

Kim, Kihyun

Identification of hazards

Estimation of the risk for each hazardous situation

Risk evaluation

Risk evaluation

Product related national and international standards

Risk evaluation data

Risk control

Risk control option analysis

Product related national and international standards

Product related information, including side effects

Design input,

Design output,

Design verification test data

Risk evaluation data

Benefit-risk analysis data

Implementation of risk control measures (including verification)

Residual risk evaluation

Benefit-risk analysis

Risk arising from risk control measures

Completeness of risk control

Overall residual risk evaluation

Evaluation of overall residual risk acceptability

Product related national and international standards

Product related information, including side effects

Overall risk evaluation data

R&D manager

Lee, Dong jin

Risk management report

Report and review of risk management

Medical Device Act in Korea

Implementing regulation in medical device in Korea

Risk management report

R&D engineer

Kim, Kihyun

Production and post-production information

Information gathering and review in production and post-production

Quality management systems

Product related information, including side effects

Pre-shipment test data

Market information data

Customer complaints file

R&D engineer,

R&D manager

Kim, Kihyun,

Lee, Dong jin

※ Verification reference data applied to all phases of risk management phases

• Risk management procedure

• Risk management plan

Activities Related to Collection and Review of Relevant Production and post-production information

Collection and review activities in production and post-production phase

The get information method of post-production information should be collected according to the internal information and the external information.

Path

Examples of collected information

Internal

(1) PMCF (Post Market Clinical Follow up)

(2) Corrective and preventive actions related reports

(3) Customer Complaints

(4) A / S recorded and maintained the information obtained during maintenance

(5) Customer satisfaction surveys

External

(1) Reporting medical incidents (Recall, the side effects reported cases of domestic and foreign)

(2) Related academic papers and expert opinions

(3) Information related similar medical device

(4) Establishment and revised trends in international and domestic laws / standards

(5) In the process of performing clinical trials information

R&D manager shall assess the suitability of the following information which is collected and analyzed variety information about post-production

- The presence of the factor to the previously unrecognized

- Whether the change occurs in the factors previously identified (changes in raw materials, equipment, work standards, etc.)

- Whether or not to be invalid or improper risk analysis results

If it is determined that additional risk control measures are necessary in order to present the suitability evaluation factors should be identified or modified to perform additional changes to the risk management plan and risk management activities (risk analysis, risk assessment and risk control)

If you change risk management plan and risk management activities are carried out in addition you shall be reapprove and record the changes to the risk management plan and report.

Responsibility and the role of the Quality manager

Collect, review the information and manage the quality problems in production and post-production phase

Risk analysis for the collected information (once every 12 months)

analysis the previously unknown hazards or hazardous situations exist or arise new hazards in the context of working environment, and whether the estimated risks for previously identified hazardous situations are affected by the introduction of the information.

Control the new hazards

If previously unknown hazards or hazardous situations exist and the risk is not judged acceptable:

assess the effect of the previously implemented risk management activities;

review the risk management files whether the additional risk control measures are needed to control the hazards.

After the adequate assessment, if the new hazards exist or additional risk control measures are needed, proceed the iterative risk management activities and update the risk management file.

If the risk management plan is need to be updated, record the changes and should be received the re-approval.

Adverse event reporting, if necessary

According to the seriousness of the information collected, the Quality manager shall report safety information and any side effects to the regulatory agency (Applicable national or regional regulations).
