queueId: ingest-1781569954382-bwm
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/01_HAD1717MC(MG)/▶ CE MDD/■ 3. 3차 CE TCF 보안사항 제출 (12월10일)/08. PMS & PMCF/A-PMS-001 Post Market Surveillance.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/1ea9b5a3fad7/A-PMS-001 Post Market Surveillance__1ea9b5a3fad7_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: a5175d93d349
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 726

SOURCE_TEXT
Vigilance System, PMS plan

For

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

HAD1717MC, HAD1717MG

Report No.: A-PMS-001 (Rev.0)

Dept. / Title

Name

Date

Signature

Prepared

Sales team

No Jungmin

Sep/12/2019

Review

R&D Manager

Lee, Dong jin

Sep/13/2019

Approval

Quality Manager

Hur Namkyu

Sep/13/2019

0.0 Revision history

Revision history

Rev. No.

Rev. date

Revision contents

Remark

0

Sep/12/2019

Establishment

1. Scope and Purpose

The vigilance system is followed by our documented Quality Procedures based on our quality systems – ISO 13485:2016, Guidelines on medical device vigilance system (MEDDEV 2.12/1 rev.8).

This Quality Procedure covers the actions to be taken once our company receives information concerning an Incident involving a Medical Device according to Medical Device Directives.

The purpose of this procedure is to improve the protection of health and safety of patients, users and others by reducing the likelihood of the same type of adverse incident being repeating in different places at different times and to provide for a system and instructions, and to assign responsibilities for gathering and analyzing post-production feedback and for meeting customer requirements. This is to be achieved by the evaluation of reported incidents and dissemination of information, which could be used to prevent such repetitions, or to alleviate the consequences of such incidents.

The objective of the Post Market Surveillance (PMS) is to gain and review the experience in the post production phase. An appropriate post-market surveillance plan is key to identifying and investigating residual risks associated with the use of medical devices placed on the market. If it is determined that there is a residual risk, it should be investigated and evaluated through systematic PMCF studies.

The Post Market Surveillance (PMS) is the integrated part of quality assurance system, and is based on information received from the field, including complaint monitoring, feedback from sales representatives, reports from regulatory authorities, literature reviews, and service and repair information

1.1 Applicable standard references

MDD 93/42/EEC as amended by 2007/47/EC

 MEDDEV 2.12/2 rev 2 Post Market Clinical Follow-Up Studies

 MEDDEV 2.7.1 rev 4 Clinical Evaluation

 EN ISO 14971:2012 Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices

 EN ISO 13485:2016 Quality management systems - Requirements for regulatory purposes

 NB-MED-2_12-1 Rev.11 Post-Marketing Surveillance(PMS)

MEDDEV 2.12/1 [Jan. 2013 Rev.8] Guidelines on medical device vigilance system

2. Term and Definition

2.1 ABNORMAL USE

Act or omission of an act by the OPERATOR or USER of a MEDICAL DEVICE as a result of conduct which is beyond any means of risk control by the MANUFACTURER.

(Reference: EN IEC 60601-1-6)

2.2 AUTHORISED REPRESENTATIVE

2.3 CORRECTIVE ACTION

Action to eliminate the cause of a potential nonconformity or other undesirable situation.

2.4 DRUG / DEVICE COMBINATION PRODUCT

A MEDICAL DEVICE incorporating a medicinal product or substance where the action of the medicinal product or substance is ancillary to that of the device. In this case, the lead directives are the Medical Devices Directives (AIMD, MDD).

2.5 EUDAMED

The European database for MEDICAL DEVICEs EUDAMED is to centralise: data relating to registration of MANUFACTURERS and MEDICAL DEVICES placed on the Community market, data relating to certificates issued, modified, supplemented, suspended, withdrawn or refused, data obtained in accordance with the vigilance procedure, data concerning clinical investigations.

2.6 FIELD SAFETY CORRECTIVE ACTION (FSCA)

A FIELD SAFETY CORRECTIVE ACTION is an action taken by a MANUFACTURER to reduce a risk of death or serious deterioration in the state of health associated with the use of a MEDICAL DEVICE that is already placed on the market. Such actions, whether associated with direct or indirect harm, should be reported and should be notified via a FIELD SAFETY NOTICE.

2.7 FIELD SAFETY NOTICE (FSN)

A communication to customers and/or USERs sent out by a MANUFACTURER or its representative in relation to a Field Safety Corrective Action.

2.8 HARM

Physical injury or damage to the health of people, or damage to property or the environment.

2.9 IMMEDIATELY

For purposes of this guideline, IMMEDIATELY means without any delay that could not be justified.

2.10 INCIDENT

“Any malfunction or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in the labeling or the instructions for use which, directly or indirectly, might lead to or might have led to the death of a patient, or USER or of other persons or to a serious deterioration in their state of health.”

2.11 INDIRECT HARM

In the majority of cases, diagnostic devices IVDs and IVF/ART medical devices will, due to their intended use, not directly lead to physical injury or damage to health of people (HARM – see section 4.8). These devices are more likely to lead to indirect harm rather than to direct harm. HARM may occur as a consequence of the medical decision, action taken/not taken on the basis of information or result(s) provided by the device or as a consequence of the treatment of cells (e.g. gametes and embryos in the case of IVF/ART devices) or organs outside of the human body that will later be transferred to a patient.

2.12 INTENDED PURPOSE

The use for which the device is intended according to the data supplied by the MANUFACTURER on the labelling, in the instructions and/or in promotional materials.

2.13 MANUFACTURER

The natural or legal person with responsibility for the design, manufacture, packaging and labelling of a device before it is placed on the market under his own name, regardless of whether these operations are carried out by that person himself or on his behalf by a third party.

Reference: Article 1.2 (f) of the IVDD and Article 1.2 (f) of the MDD

2.14 MEDICAL DEVICE

For the purpose of the Medical Devices Directives 90/385/EEC, 93/42/EEC and 98/79/EEC, any instrument, apparatus, appliance, material or other Article, whether used alone or in combination, including the software necessary for its proper application intended by the MANUFACTURER to be used for human beings for the purpose of Medical device

2.15 OPERATOR

Person handling equipment.

2.16 PERIODIC SUMMARY REPORTING

PERIODIC SUMMARY REPORTING is an alternative reporting regime that is agreed between the MANUFACTURER and the National Competent Authority for reporting similar INCIDENTs with the same device or device type in a consolidated way where the root cause is known or an FSCA has been implemented.

2.17 SERIOUS PUBLIC HEALTH THREAT

Any event type which results in imminent risk of death, serious deterioration in state of health, or serious illness that requires prompt remedial action.

2.18 TREND REPORTING

A reporting type used by the MANUFACTURER when a significant increase in events not normally considered to be INCIDENTs according to section 5.1.3. occurred and for which pre-defined trigger levels are used to determine the threshold for reporting.

2.19 UNANTICIPATED

A deterioration in state of health is considered UNANTICIPATED if the condition leading to the event was not considered in a risk analysis.

2.20 USE ERROR

Act or omission of an act, that has a different result to that intended by the MANUFACTURER or expected by the OPERATOR of the MEDICAL DEVICE.

2.21 USER

The health care institution, professional, carer or patient using or maintaining MEDICAL DEVICES.

2.22 Clinical Data

The safety and/or performance information that is generated from the use of a device.

 Clinical data are sourced from:

 - clinical investigation(s) of the device concerned; or

 - clinical investigation(s) or other studies reported in the scientific literature of a similar device for which equivalence to the device in question can be demonstrated; or

 - published and/or unpublished reports on other clinical experience of either the device in question or a similar device for which equivalence to the device in question can be demonstrated.

2.23 Clinical Evaluation

The assessment and analysis of clinical data pertaining to a medical device to verify the clinical safety and performance of the device when used as intended by the manufacturer.

2.24 Clinical Evidence

The clinical data and the clinical evaluation report pertaining to a medical device.

2.25 Clinical Investigation

Any systematic investigation or study in or on one or more human subjects, undertaken to assess the safety or performance of a medical device.

2.26 Post-market clinical follow-up (PMCF) study

A study carried out following the CE marking of a device and intended to answer specific questions relating to clinical safety or performance (i.e. residual risks) of a device when used in accordance with its approved labelling.

2.27 PMCF plan

The documented, proactive, organised methods and procedures set up by the manufacturer to collect clinical data based on the use of a CE-marked device corresponding to a particular design dossier or on the use of a group of medical devices belonging to the same subcategory or generic device group as defined in Directive 93/42/EEC as amended by 2007/47/EC. The objective is to confirm clinical performance and safety throughout the expected lifetime of the medical device, the acceptability of identified risks and to detect emerging risks on the basis of factual evidence.

2.28 Residual Risk

Risk remaining after risk control measures has been taken

3. Responsibility and Authority

3.1 Quality Management Representative

(1) Approve Advisory Notice

(2) Approve the contract with Europe Authorized representative

(3) Approve the declaration of conformity

3.2 R&D Management Representative

(1) Review Advisory Notice, contract and the declaration of conformity

(2) Approve the result post-market information

3.3 Sales Team

(1) Information correction and analysis after producing

(2) Solve the problem described in advisory notice

(3) Preparation and review of Post-market information

3.4 European Representative

(1) Conduct business in respect of the VS within the respective European country.

4. Procedure

4.1 Vigilance System

(1) Definition of Vigilance System’s correspondence

1) The Vigilance System is intended to allow data to be correlated between Competent Authorities and manufacturers and so facilitate corrective action earlier than would be case if data were collected and action taken on a States by State basis.

2) Whilst we have the responsibility for taking any action necessary, Competent Authorities should also monitor the effectiveness of the manufacturer’s follow-up on reported incidents. The Competent Authority should take any further action that may be necessary to supplement the actions of the manufacturer.

3) Once corrective action is identified, hospital administrators, medical practitioners and other health-care professionals and user representatives responsible for the maintenance and the safety of medical devices, can take the necessary steps. Such steps should, where practicable, be taken in co-operation with the manufacturer.

4) Competent Authorities may also monitor experience with devices of the same kind made by different manufacturers.

(2) General Principles

1) Information held by Competent Authorities in connection with the Vigilance System is to be held in confidence, as defined by the relevant Articles of Directives. In order to achieve the purpose of the Vigilance System, any incident report should be available on request, and in confidence, to the other Competent Authorities.

2) The act of reporting an incident to a Competent Authority is not to be construed as an admission of liability for the incident and its consequences. Written reports may carry a disclaimer to this effect.

3) The initial report on an incident under the Vigilance System is made by manufacturer to the Competent Authority for recording and evaluation. Each initial report should lead to a final report, but not every initial report will lead to a corrective action.

4) We ensure that their authorized representative within the EEA, persons responsible for placing devices on the market.

5) We inform our Notified Body of those incidents affecting the certification. However, it remains the role of the Competent Authority of monitor the investigation being carried out by us.

(3) Vigilance System

1) Guidelines on types of indents to be reported in case of occurring following incidents, QMR review and determine the report considering following things and then approve to President.

① An event has occurred

The Incident or near incident and the device or the information supplied with the device

i) Those which led to a death

ii) Those which led to a serious deterioration in the state of health of a patient, user or other person

- Life-threatening illness or injury

- Permanent impairment of a body function or permanent damage to a body structure

- condition necessitating medical or surgical intervention to prevent permanent impairment of a body function or permanent damage to a body structure.

iii) Those which might have led to death or serious deterioration in health

- An incident associated with a device happened

- The incident was such that, if it occurred again, it might lead to death or serious deterioration in health

- testing or examination of the device or the information supplied with the device, or any scientific literature indicated some factor (eg a deterioration in characteristics or performance, or a shortcoming in the information) which could lead to an incident involving death or serious deterioration in health

iv) The Incident or near incident and the device or the information supplied with the device

- A malfunction or deterioration should be understood as a failure of a device to perform in accordance with its intended purpose when used in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. This excludes just the state of trouble not injury on body and aging of device.

- This includes problems caused by unpredicted biological effects relating to the device.

- Inaccuracy in the labeling, instructions for use.

2) Initial report

To protect near incident, the incident having the possibility of defection with product and information must be found out. Manufacturer must report to the National Competent authority as fast as possible. The incident report should be submitted within 10 days and near incidents report within 30days.

① QMR must submit an initial incident report to the National Competent Authority for recording and evaluation. Reports on incidents concerning devices in Class II or Class III and IVDs listed in Annex II or for self-testing and occurring in countries outside the EEA and which result in corrective action, should be made to the Competent Authority in the State where the Notified Body is situated and which made the attestations which led to the CE marking being attached to the device.

② If applicable, notify European Sales agent or European Agent.

③ The initial report includes following provisions

Name, Authorized Representative’s Name, address, contact number including fax number.

The date when the incident came to the knowledge of the manufacturer

Medical device kind, commercial name, catalogue number/model, serial/batch/lot number, software version

Identification number of the Notified Body involved in the conformity assessment procedure

Associated devices and/or accessories involved in the incident

Date, Patient, Detail information including users

Current position of product related to incident

User’s contact number occurring incident

Preliminary comments of manufacturer

Next planning or corrective action schedule

Statements whether know about similar incident affecting current incident

If so, any other Competent Authorities to which these incidents have been reported, and the reference/date of the report

Any other EEA state in which the device is known to be on sale

④ Reported incident or Product information

Consider following cases.

Medical practitioner’s opinion basis of available evidence

Preliminary reported conclusion of incident

Previous or similar incident evidence

Any other evidence having manufacturer

Malfunction or Quality deterioration from the function and characters of products. But quality deterioration excludes aging of products.

Inaccuracy in the labeling, instructions for use

Report the above things otherwise keep the file.

3) Investigation

① After initial report, QMR start to investigate generally and report to the competent authority how process. The Competent authority monitors and if necessary, investigates for itself. At that time, manufacturer should support the competent authority. The monitoring includes following provisions.

Investigation’s action or method

Process or schedule

Result

② Investigation may include

Quantity of products

Post-market period

Detail information of design change

③ Need contact point about Notified body, users, the competent authority, testing institution.

④ If the manufacturer is not able to perform the investigation of an incident then he should inform the Competent Authority without delay.

4) Actions

① Outcomes may include, for example

No action

Additional surveillance or follow-up of devices in use

Dissemination of information to users, e.g. by advisory notice

Corrective action on future production

Corrective action on devices in use

Recall

② SYSTEMATIC RECALLS

The manufacturer should issue advisory notices when implementing recalls. Copies of advisory notices should be sent to the Competent Authorities of the countries to which they are applicable, and for devices in Class II or Class III or IVDs listed in Annex II or for self-testing, the Competent Authority in the State where the Notified Body is situated and which made the attestation which led to the CE marking being attached to the device, and for devices in Class I or IVDs neither listed in Annex II nor for self-testing, the Competent Authority in the State where the manufacturer’s registered place of business under Article 14 is situated. Manufacturers should consider sending copies of advisory notices to Competent Authorities under cover of a report which takes the same structure as the Final Report.

5) Completion of investigation and file

Once takes action and complete the incident, QMR must report to The Competent Authority. The Competent Authority should place the manufacturer's final report on file and make any other observations necessary. The file may then be endorsed as "closed". The Competent Authority should inform the manufacturer when a file is "closed"

4.2 Device Recall and Advisory Notices

(1) General

The recall of a device is the removal from the field of a marketed device that is in violation of the related regulations. Recall does not include market withdrawal or stock recovery. A recall is necessary when it has been determined that there is a risk of serious deterioration of the state of health or death. A recall includes the return of a medical device to the supplier; its modification by the supplier at the site of installation; its exchange; or its destruction. An advisory notice is issued to provide information and/or advice on what action should be taken in the use, modification, disposal or return of a medical device. Market withdrawal and stock recovery activities are not governed by this procedure. These activities pertain to the removal of distributed devices that are not in violation of current regulations, but are the result of normal stock rotation or the replacement of an old style with an improved device; and to the recovery of devices that have not been marketed or have not left the direct control of the company's premises.

(2) Recall responsibilities

• The recall committee is responsible for initiating the recall and coordinating related activities. The committee includes the President, Quality Assurance Manager and Production Manager. In an emergency, and when there is no time to assemble the full committee, the President or the Quality Assurance Manager alone is authorized to initiate a recall.

• Possible recall situations are reported immediately to the Quality Assurance Manager. Quality Assurance analyzes the product for compliance with the specifications and/or regulatory requirements, determines the extent of the problem and reports the results to the President. When the situation warrants it, the President convenes a meeting of the recall committee.

• Production and Sales are responsible for organizing and conducting all recall activities. This includes the determination of the location of all suspect lots, internally and externally.

(3) Recall

1) The recall committee decides whether a recall is necessary and, if so, determines the following:

• The extent and nature of health hazard and recall classification;

• Proposed depth of recall;

• Type of notice to consignees, i.e., letter, fax or telephone;

• Content of notice to consignees;

• Method for verifying effectiveness of recall.

2) When the above data is available, the proper authorities are contacted with the proposed recall plan.

(4) Receipt of recalled devices

1) Quality Assurance designates and prepares a quarantine area for the receipt and holding of recalled devices.

2) Devices are logged to include the quantity returned, lot number and source of the return. This log is used to verify that all suspected devices have been located and returned. The log is reviewed regularly and the data is utilized to prepare the necessary reports.

3) At the conclusion of the recall a decision is made regarding the disposition of the recalled devices (refer to Quality Procedure, Control of Nonconforming Product).

(5) Issue of advisory notices

1) The recall committee determines the need for issuing advisory notices. The process for making this determination is similar to that which applies to recalls. All advisory notices are sent via certified mail or other traceable method.

4.3 Post-market Surveillance

When establishing and operating the PMS system, the followings should be considered:

-Whether or not the product or technology is new,

-The extent of available scientific knowledge (e.g., on long term effects),

-The state of the art and market experience with similar products and technology.

 4.3.1 Post-market surveillance procedure

1) Information Collection

       The sales department collects the following PMS information and uses it for analysis.

(1) Five Year Sales Volume Information

(2) Our customer complaint information for the year

(3) Hazard case report information (hazard case report, V / S, MDR, etc.)

(4) Recall case report information (voluntary recall, forced recall)

(5) case report information for equivalent medical devices;(Adverse event)

Korea: Medical Device Information Technology Support Center: http://www.mditac.or.kr/

KFDA: http://www.mfds.go.kr/index.do?mid=734

http://info.mditac.or.kr/IntegratedInformation/sideEffect Europe:http://www.mhra.gov.uk/Safetyinformation/Safetywarningsalertsandrecalls/MedicalDeviceAlerts/index.htm

                United States: http://www.fda.gov/Safety/Recalls/default.htm

http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfMAUDE/search.cfm

6) hazard media information for related products

7) etc.

 4.3.2 PMS Information Analysis

The sales department prepares a PMS analysis report based on the PMS information collected on a yearly basis and delivers it to the relevant departments such as quality control department, medical engineering research institute.

4.3.3 Issuance of CA / PA for Improvement

Quality control department issues CA / PA related to manufacturing process improvement, item management improvement, labeling improvement and design change based on PMS analysis report and distributes to related departments such as sales department, medical engineering research institute and production department. .

4.3.4 Improvement Activities

   Quality control department, sales department, production department, research institute and corresponding departments perform CA / PA improvement activities.

4.3.5 Risk analysis

   Risk management officer, S / W validation officer and user suitability manager in the laboratory review the PMS report received from the sales department and revise related documents such as risk management report, S / W validation report and usability report.

4.3.6 Reflect management review

  The sales department, production department, and medical engineering laboratory submit the results of CA / PA improvement activities and risk analysis to the quality management department to be reflected in the management review input requirements

 4.3.7 Post-market surveillance report

Follow up market research will be conducted for the following items.

Market experience of x-ray detector in current. Latest 5(five) years released :

Area

Domestic

(Korea)

Overseas

EU

non-EU

Quantity distributed(2015)

0

0

0

Quantity distributed(2016)

0

0

0

Quantity distributed(2017)

0

0

0

Quantity distributed(2018)

0

0

0

Quantity distributed(2019)

0

0

0

2. Customer feedback include complain (after 5 years)

Year

Safety

Performance

Malfunction/

repair

Labeling

Packing

Incident

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

Total

3. Similarity products incident and adverse event

Search site

When,

by whom

Adverse Event

http://info.mditac.or.kr/IntegratedInformation/sideEffect

Frequently,

Q&A part

http://www.mhra.gov.uk/Safetyinformation/Safetywarningsalertsandrecalls/MedicalDeviceAlerts/index.htm

Frequently,

Q&A part

http://www.fda.gov/Safety/Recalls/default.htm

http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfMAUDE/search.cfm

Frequently,

Q&A part.

Total

4. Incident/Adverse/Recall feedback (after 5 years)

NO

Serious Adverse Event

Number of Serious Adverse Event

Corrective action

Notifications

Recalls

1

led to a death

2

results in a life threatening illness or injury

3

results in a permanent impairment of a body structure or body function

4

requires in patient hospitalisation or prolongation of existing hospitalisation

5

results in medical or surgical intervention to prevent permanent impairment to body structure or a body function

6

led to foetal distress, foetal death or a congenital abnormality/birth defect

7

Other side effect

Total

5. Conclusion

1

analysis

2

evaluation

4.4 Elements of a PMCF study

Post-market clinical follow-up studies are performed on a device within its intended use/purpose(s) according to the instructions for use. It is important to note that PMCF studies must be conducted according to applicable laws and regulations and should involve an appropriate methodology and follow appropriate guidance and standards.

(1) PMCF studies must be outlined as a well designed clinical investigation plan or study plan, and, as appropriate, include:

1) clearly stated research question(s), objective(s) and related endpoints;

2) scientifically sound design with an appropriate rationale and statistical analysis plan;

3) a plan for conduct according to the appropriate standard(s);

4) a plan for an analysis of the data and for drawing appropriate conclusion(s).

(2) Objectives of PMCF studies

The objective(s) of the study should be stated clearly and should address the residual risk(s) identified and be formulated to address one or more specific questions relating to the clinical safety or clinical performance of the device. A formal hypothesis should be clearly expressed.

(3) Design of PMCF studies

PMCF studies should be designed to address the objective(s) of the study. The design may vary based on the objective(s), study hypothesis research question and endpoints and should be scientifically sound to allow for valid conclusions to be drawn.

PMCF studies can follow several methodologies, for example:

1) the extended follow-up of patients enrolled in premarket investigations;

2) a new clinical investigation;

3) a review of data derived from a device registry; or

4) a review of relevant retrospective data from patients previously exposed to the device.

PMCF studies should have a plan describing the design and methodologies appropriate for addressing the stated objectives. The clinical investigation plan/study plan should identify and where needed justify at a minimum:

1) the study population (corresponding to the CE-mark scope);

2) inclusion/exclusion criteria;

3) rational and justification of the chosen study design including use of controls/control groups (where relevant; randomised or not);

4) the selection of sites and investigators;

5) study objectives and related study endpoints and statistical considerations;

6) the number of subjects involved;

7) the duration of patient follow-up;

8) the data to be collected;

9) the analysis plan including any interim reporting where appropriate to ensure continuous

10) risk management based on clinical data; and

11) procedures/criteria for early study termination;

12) ethical considerations;

13) methods of quality control of data where appropriate.

The points above may not all apply to a retrospective data review.

(4) Implementation of the PMCF study, analysis of data and conclusion(s)

The study should:

1) be executed with adequate control measures to assure compliance with the clinical investigation or study plan;

2) include data analysis with conclusions drawn according to the analysis plan by someone with appropriate expertise; and

3) have a final report with conclusions relating back to original objective(s) and hypothesis/hypotheses.

5. Record and Storage 

No.

Document and Record Names

Document report

Preservation Period

Management Team

1

Manufacturer’s Incident Report

MEDDEV 2 12-1 Rev.8

5 Years

Quality control department

2

Field Safety Corrective action

MEDDEV 2 12-1 Rev.8

5 Years

Quality control department

3

Urgent Field Safety Notice

MEDDEV 2 12-1 Rev.8

5 Years

Quality control department

4

Periodic Summary Report

MEDDEV 2 12-1 Rev.8

5 Years

Quality control department

5

Trend Report

MEDDEV 2 12-1 Rev.8

5 Years

Quality control department

6

NATIONAL COMPETENT AUTHORITY REPORT

MEDDEV 2 12-1 Rev.8

5 Years

Quality control department

7

PMS Report

A-PMS-002

5 Years

Sales Management

8

PMCF plan & report

A-PMCF-01

5 Years

Sales Management

See the Annex Report FORM in attached file ‘MEDDEV 2.12-2 ’
