queueId: ingest-1781569954377-7j4
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/01_DHF/06_HnX-R1 (Retrofit)/03_설계개발 출력/10_User manual/006_Instructions for Use - HnVUE.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/f4545a77e264/006_Instructions for Use - HnVUE__f4545a77e264_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 1aa387ea46b0
productSignal: HnX
authoritySignal: general
pilotRank: 1806

SOURCE_TEXT
HnVUE Software

User Manual

Model name: HnX-R1

Ref no.: HnVUE

<Version : 1.0.2>

Revision Status

No

Rev Date

Rev No.

Description

Prepared by

Reviewed by

Approved by

1

2025.02.17

0

Initial

2

2025.04.24

1

Add new function

3

2025.07.07

2

Feature additions and bug fixes

4

2025.07.14

3

Modify model name.

Contents

1. Purpose 6

1.1 Intended for Use 6

1.2 Symbols 7

2. System Requirement 7

3. Software Installation and Uninstallation 8

3.1 SW Installation 8

3.2 SW Uninstallation 8

4. Screen composition 9

4.1 Login 9

4.2 Worklist / Studylist 11

4.2.1 Work list, Study list 선택 11

4.2.2 Search Options and Task List Format 11

4.2.3 Quick access to shooting window and various tools 13

4.2.4 Capacity and Each Server Connection Display, Time Display 14

4.2.5 Detector Status 14

4.2.6 Before and after shooting list 15

4.2.7 Settings Window 15

4.3 Acquisition 16

4.3.1 Patient information, shooting list, and image processing 16

4.3.2 Crop & Marker 17

4.3.3 Manipulation 18

4.3.4 Annotation 18

4.3.5 Tool 19

4.3.6 Save, Send, and Exit 19

4.3.7 Bucky Selection 20

4.4 Stitching 20

4.4.1 Full Image 21

4.4.2 Frame Image 22

4.4.3 Edit Stitching Image 23

4.5 Dicom Print 23

4.5.1 Viewer 24

4.5.2 Image List 24

4.5.3 Tool 25

4.6 Report 26

4.6.1 Viewer 26

4.6.2 Image List 27

4.6.3 Tool 27

4.7 Viewer 28

4.7.1 Viewer 28

4.7.2 Image List 29

4.7.3 Tool 30

4.8 Setting 31

4.8.1 System 31

4.8.2 Date Fomat, Language 31

4.8.3 Log, Integrity 31

4.8.4 Automatic Deletion 32

4.8.5 BackUp – Restore 32

4.8.6 Session Time 33

4.8.7 Account 33

4.8.8 Detector 35

4.8.9 Generator 36

4.8.10 PACS 36

4.8.11 Worklist 37

4.8.12 Print 38

4.8.12.1 Print Server 39

4.8.12.2 Print Setting 40

4.8.13 Option 41

4.8.14 Display 42

4.8.15 DicomSet 42

4.8.16 RIS Code 43

5. Software Operation Procedure 46

Purpose

This software is used for devices that store, enlarge, reduce, view, analyze, transmit, process, and output medical images.

H&abyz Co., Ltd.

2-Dong, 41-16, Cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-eup, Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, 17118, Republic of Korea

Tel : 070-4658-9300

Fax : 031-322-9390

E-mail : sales@abyzr.com

Intended for Use

This software is intended for use only by X-ray radiologists or physicians. Furthermore, installation may only be performed by a professional installation engineer from the place of purchase.

For proper usage and safety purposes, please ensure that only legally qualified person (Doctor, Medical Treatment Radiological Technologist, Medical Treatment X-RAY Technologist) can use this product after fully familiarize with contents of user manual

This medical device can’t use alone. So this product need to connect with X-ray detector. Sometimes, this software operates with exposure condition of X-ray Generator system.

This product is a medical device, and it should only be used as digital X-ray radiography console software for X-ray radiography at corresponding hospitals.

 Symbols

Symbols

Descriptions

Refer to operation or install manual

Warning

Caution

Read Carefully

Manufacture

Date of manufacture

System Requirement

The minimum requirements for installing and running this software are as follows:

Processor

Intel Core i5 10th Gen or higher

RAM

4GB RAM or higher

HDD

500GB or higher

Graphic Card

Intel UHD Graphics 630

Monitor

1920x1080 resolution or higher

Operating System

Windows 10 Pro or higher

USB DonglKey

The software only works properly with our dedicated USB dongle key

We recommend that you partition or divide the drive where the software installation and image data are stored into separate hard disks.

Software Installation and Uninstallation

If you are updating on a PC where the software is already installed, please paste the patch file into the existing installation file.

 SW Installation

Please copy the software installation file to the C Drive of your PC's hard disk.

Installation can only be done by an installation engineer, so if you are not an installation engineer for the product, do not install it.

 SW Uninstallation

Before uninstalling the Software, back up any data that requires backup. This can include executable files, configuration files, and parameter folders. Uninstall the Software by going to the Control Panel and selecting Add or Remove Programs.

Screen composition

Login

After installing the USB DongleKey, click [HnVue] on the desktop or start menu to run it.

Users enter their ID and password on the login screen.

If the ID and password do not match, a "Check the ID or password" pop-up window will appear.

If you make a mistake 5 times in a row with the same account, your account will be locked.

Locked accounts can be unlocked by the administrator by clicking the Unlock button.

Shows a program usage warning to users after logging in.

Content: This system is private property, and access is restricted to authorized users only. System usage is monitored and recorded for security purposes and may be subject to audit if necessary. Unauthorized access or use is strictly prohibited and may result in civil and criminal penalties. By using this system, you agree to these terms.

If the password change cycle is reached or the default password is used, an alarm will appear asking if you want to change the password. Clicking Yes will allow you to change the password.

 Worklist / Studylist

Work list, Study list 선택

You can select Worklist or Studylist to navigate to each window.

Worklist: This is the patient waiting screen, where you can check prescribed patients or register new patients.

Studylist: This is the screen for viewing completed examination items, allowing you to review images that have already been examined.

Search Options and Task List Format

Modality selection (All / CR / DR / DX / CR,DR,DX)

Patient Name search criteria for WL searches (only letters, numbers, spaces, and -_.':/ are allowed)

If Suspend is checked, only suspended exams will be listed.

If Hide is checked, hidden exams will be displayed.

- 1 Day – A list of patients scheduled for examination on that day will be displayed.

- 3 Days – A list of the past three days will be displayed.

- 1 Week – A list of the past seven days will be displayed.

- 15 Days – A list of the past 15 days will be displayed.

- 1 Month – A list of the past month will be displayed.

Users can enter and change dates and select a period by clicking the calendar icon.

A list for the selected period is displayed.

The task list is displayed in tile format.

The task list is displayed in classic format.

Quick access to shooting window and various tools

You can conduct an emergency examination without patient information, rather than creating a new patient by pressing a button.

1. Create a new patient.

2. Add a body part to the selected patient.

3. Edit the selected patient's information.

4. Delete the selected patient list.

5. Hide the selected patient.

6. Move images from the selected exam to another exam using the < and > buttons.

You can search by Patient Name or ID. (Only letters, numbers, spaces, and -_.':/ are allowed.)

You can export images.

You can save as DCM, JPG, BMP, or TIF, and specify a path. (/:*?""<>| cannot be entered.)

You can send the image to PACS.

Go to the Stitching window.

Go to the Print window.

Go to the Report window.

Capacity and Each Server Connection Display, Time Display

1. The local storage capacity is displayed. If the user-defined capacity is exceeded, the icon color changes to red.

2. Worklist Server connection display.

3. Storage Server connection display.

4. Print Server connection display.

5. Today's date and time are displayed.

Detector Status

- Displays the status of Stand, Table, and Portable Table from left to right.

- The leftmost icon becomes active when each detector is connected.

- Displays the Wi-Fi signal strength when using a wireless detector.

- Displays the remaining battery level.

- Click the refresh icon to refresh the detector status.

Before and after shooting list

- This is the Worklist and Studylist screen.

- Each screen displays a list for the user-selected period.

Settings Window

This opens the SW Existing Settings and Dicom Settings windows.

Acquisition

Patient information, shooting list, and image processing

Patient information will be displayed.

Clicking the button will switch to the Image Processing tab.

You can change image processing parameter values ​​and load, save, save as, and save to a database.

Add or update RIS codes and configure ProcedureStep settings.

You can add a shooting area.

The user-selected list will be displayed. A green icon indicates that an image is present.

You can change the image capture order by pressing ∧∨.

The changed image order will be applied to the PACS.

This is a list of thumbnails of the list taken by the user.

Crop & Marker

1. Automatically determines the crop position and size.

2. Creates a circular crop guide.

3. Creates crop guides in sizes 8/10, 10/12, 14/17, and 17/17.

4. Click L and R, then click on the desired part of the image to create a marker at that location.

5. Enter the marker you want to add, press the + button, and then click on the desired part of the image to add the marker.

Manipulation

1. Basic Selection Tool.

2. Adjust the Crop Guide Size.

3. Click and drag to zoom in and out.

4. Image Movement Tool.

5. Image Rotation Tool.

6. Rotate at any angle.

7. Flip Left, Right, Up, Down.

8. Fit Tool.

9. Image Color Inversion Tool.

10. ROI Windowing Tool.

11. Selecting this tool and clicking on the image will enlarge the clicked area.

Annotation

Measure length

Measure angles

Draw arrows

Draw squares

Draw circles

Tool

1. Save selected images

2. Copy images

3. Mark thumbnail images with an X to indicate they are unused and cancel

4. Retake function

5. Reshoot function

6. Dicom info function

7. Stop shooting and move to the Worklist.

8. Delete selected images.

9. Move to the Stitching window.

10. Move to the Print window.

11. Move to the Report window.

12. Move to the Viewer window.

Save, Send, and Exit

1. Save image

2. Exit to Worklist

3. Send selected images to PACS.

4. After sending all images to PACS, exit the acquisition window.

Bucky Selection

When linking the generator, change the values ​​of each detector and kV, mA, ms, and mAs.

 Stitching

Create a position to perform stitching with Whole Spine and Long Bone and acquire images.

Click the Stitching icon (1) in the Tool Table menu.

Clicking this will open the Stitching screen.

Move the image created on the left by dragging it with the mouse.

Full Image

This is the space that shows the user what the image will look like when it is saved.

Frame Image

1. Select the 1st and 2nd / 2nd and 3rd frames of the attached video.

2. Reset the stitched image.

3. Adjust the image to create a natural look when overlapping the images.

4. Perform manual stitching.

5. Perform auto stitching.

6. Perform 90-degree rotation / horizontal flip / vertical flip.

7. Manually fine-tune the video in each direction.

8. Save the stitched video.

Edit Stitching Image

- Check the stitched video that has been merged into one page.

- After checking the video, you can add ROI size and markers.

Dicom Print

Viewer

1. Users can drag and drop the image they want to print.

2. Images can be zoomed in and out using the mouse wheel.

3. Left-click on an image to move it.

4. Right-click on an image to adjust the Window Width/Level.

5. Double-click on the desired image to fit it.

6. Click on the desired image and press Del to delete it.

Image List

1. If you enter from the shooting window, a list of shots will appear.

2. If you enter from the Studylist, a list of images for the selected Study will appear.

Tool

1. Users can choose their preferred layout.

2. Select the desired logo position.

3. Show or hide the logo on the screen.

4. Show or hide the overlay.

5. Choose which overlay to display.

1. Select the film size.

2. Select the orientation.

3. Rotate or flip the selected image.

4. Delete the entire image.

5. Fit the entire image.

6. Set the print server.

7. Print.

Report

Viewer

1. You can load images by dragging and dropping.

2. You can load multiple images.

3. You can add image information and descriptions.

4. Selecting an image will create a yellow border.

5. You can zoom in and out of the image using the mouse wheel.

Image List

1. If you enter from the shooting window, a list of shots will appear.

2. If you enter from the Studylist, a list of images for the selected Study will appear.

Tool

1. Users can save what they create in Viewer as Word or PDF.

2. Users can rotate or flip the selected image.

3. Users can select and drag the yellow border to select the desired portion of the image, then click the button to crop the image.

4. Users can fit the entire image.

5. Delete the selected image.

6. Delete the entire image.

7. Save the file with the extension selected in step 1.

 Viewer

This is a window for comparing and confirming images.

Viewer

1. Users can drag and drop the image they want to print.

2. Images can be zoomed in and out using the mouse wheel.

3. Left-click on an image to move it.

4. Right-click on an image to adjust the Window Width/Level.

5. Double-click on the desired image to fit it.

6. Click on the desired image and press Del to delete it.

Image List

1. If you enter from the shooting window, a list of shots will appear.

2. If you enter from the Studylist, a list of images for the selected Study will appear.

Tool

Users can select a layout and load an image.

Users can view the annotations they've drawn in the Acquisition window.

Overlays can be viewed.

Users can select an overlay.

5. Users can rotate, flip, zoom in and out, move, fit, and invert colors of the selected image.

6. Delete the entire image.

7. Fit the entire image.

 Setting

System

Date Fomat, Language

1. Administrators can select their preferred date format.

- This data format is the Worklist Date Format, not the SW display date.

2. Administrators can select their preferred language.

3. Sound can be turned on.

Log, Integrity

Administrators can check the time of a specific user's actions and what actions were taken.

Administrators can search for specific actions based on specific dates, User IDs, and Log Codes.

2. Administrators can perform integrity checks to ensure all required files are present.

Automatic Deletion

1. After checking, compare the selected values ​​for Day, Week, and Month to the current date and delete any past data.

2. If the local storage capacity exceeds the user-defined capacity, data will be deleted until it reaches the administrator-defined capacity.

BackUp – Restore

1. Administrators can back up data at a specific time.

2. Backups are automatically performed at the time and date set by the administrator, if checked.

3. When performing a Manual or Automatic backup, you can choose to back up data from the previous day or the current day.

4. After clicking the button, users can select the desired backup folder and restore.

Session Time

1. If there is no mouse or keyboard input on your computer for the amount of time set for the session time, you will be automatically logged out and returned to the login screen.

2. Please note that any changes you have made, such as the shooting window or settings, will not be saved.

Account

1. You can access the Settings window when your Privilege level is Engineer. You cannot access the Settings window when your Privilege level is Account or User.

2. You can select and change the Operator.

3. You can enter your ID.

4. You can enter your Password.

5. You can set the user's authority.

6. You can set the Password strength to three levels.

7. You can select the Password change cycle.

8. Click the button to create an account using the Operator, ID, and Password you entered. If you do not enter a password, a default password will be created.

9. You can change the Password.

10. You can delete the account.

11. After launching the program, if you enter an incorrect password five or more times during login, the account will be locked. Once locked, you cannot log in even with the correct password. To log in normally, you must unlock the account with admin privileges.

12. If the login change cycle is reached, the following warning window will appear.

If you're due to change your login password or are still using the default password, a notification window will appear when you log in. Click "Yes" to change your password, or "No" to decline.

If you click Yes, the account you logged in with will appear in the ID, and after checking the password strength, you can enter an appropriate password and click Edit to change the password.

Detector

1. You can set the Stand Detector's model name, IP, GPR usage, and rotation.

2. You can set the Table Detector's model name, IP, GPR usage, and rotation.

3. You can set the Portable Detector's model name, IP, GPR usage, and rotation.

4. You can use a Preview Image.

5. Specify the XAS_W path.

6. Specify the XAS path.

Generator

The administrator can set the Manufacturer and Model of the Generator.

PACS

Add a PACS server.

Enter each item and click Save.

LocalAETitle, RemoteAETitle: English letters, numbers, spaces, punctuation marks, and symbols are all allowed.

IP Address: Only numbers and periods are allowed.

Port: Only numbers are allowed.

2. Edit the selected PACS server.

3. Delete the selected PACS server.

4. Send an echo to the selected PACS server to confirm the connection.

Worklist

Add a Worklist server.

Enter each item and click Save.

LocalAETitle, RemoteAETitle: English letters, numbers, spaces, punctuation marks, and symbols are all allowed.

IP Address: Only numbers and periods are allowed.

Port: Only numbers are allowed.

2. Edit the selected Worklist server.

3. Delete the selected Worklist server.

4. Send an echo to the selected Worklist server to verify the connection.

5. Set the Searching Time. The value must be 10 or higher; 0 or a blank value will disable the function.

Print

Print Server

Add a print server.

Enter each item and click Save.

LocalAETitle, RemoteAETitle: English letters, numbers, spaces, punctuation marks, and symbols are all allowed.

IP Address: Only numbers and periods are allowed.

Port: Only numbers are allowed.

2. Edit the selected print server.

3. Delete the selected print server.

4. Send an echo to the selected print server to confirm the connection.

Print Setting

1. Select the Film Size to print.

2. Select Medium Type for the paper type.

3. Select Smoothing for the image smoothing level.

4. Select Magnification for the image enlargement/reduction ratio.

5. Select Density for the output image density.

6. Select Orientation for the output direction.

7. Select the Border color for the output image border.

8. Select the Film Size Display Option for displaying the film size.

9. Select Printer DPI for the printer resolution.

10. You can set or enter the Logo File Path directly, or you can clear it.

(/:*?""<>| cannot be entered.)

Option

1. Specify the path where the captured image will be saved.

2. Import the DCM.

3. Enter the desired Marker and click + to add, or select the Marker you want to delete and click - to delete. You can also use the < and > keys to reposition it.

4. Enter the desired Crop and click + to add, or select the Crop you want to delete and click - to delete it. You can also use the < and > keys to reposition it.

5. When saving the image, you can choose to save it in 14-bit or 16-bit.

6. If you enter the RIS code and description, body parts matching the code will be automatically generated when adding patient information.

7. When saving the image, the annotation will also be saved with the Crop Image.

8. When saving the Stitching Image, you can save it in 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, or 1:4 ratios.

9. This value changes when fine-tuning the selected image in Stitching by pressing the button.

Display

1. You can select the text size.

2. You can place the overlays in the desired location and order. Check the desired space and double-click on the list in step 3 or press < to import them. If you want to delete an imported overlay, check the box containing the item and double-click on it or press > to delete it.

3. This is the Overlay List.

DicomSet

1. Set the Modality. (Only English is allowed.)

2. Set the Series Format.

3. Set the Hospital Name. (Only letters, numbers, spaces, -_., & are allowed.)

4. Set the Character Set.

RIS Code

1. Displays the RIS Code in the DB.

2. Clicking the button displays the Block Code List.

- RIS Codes in the list are not searchable in the Worklist.

- They are not displayed on Screen 1.

You can edit the RIS Code.

- Administrators can register and set RIS Codes and designate Markers.

- Check Only No Matching to view only unmatched items.

(kV, MA, TEI can only contain numbers, mAs can only contain numbers and periods. Parameter paths cannot contain /:*?""<>|. BodyPartName, ViewPositionName, DCMBodyPartName, and DCMViewPositionName can only contain letters, numbers, - _ / . , : ( ), and spaces.)

2. Delete the RIS Code.

3. Modify the ProcedureStep. You can add and delete markers and control the settings.

The yellow box part is applied to the English body name > dicom file that matches the current setting language. (Only numbers are allowed for kV, MA, TEI, and only numbers and . are allowed for mAs. /:*?""<>| cannot be entered in the parameter path. BodyPartName, ViewPositionName, DCMBodyPartName, DCMViewPositionName can only contain letters, numbers, - _ / . , : ( ), and spaces.)

2. Import RISCode.

3. Export RISCode.

4. Import the Procedure.

5. Export the Procedure.

6. You can choose how to match.

7. Enter the selected RIS Code or Description.

5. Software Operation Procedure

1. Connect the LAN cable between the Detector and the Workstation PC or set the wireless SSID.

2. Insert the USB Donglekey into the Workstation PC.

3. Click the HnVue executable file to display the login window.

4. Enter your ID and password to display the Worklist window.

5. Check the patient information and the Detector connection status.

6. Operate the X-ray to capture the patient.

7. In the Acquisition window, check if the image is being acquired, tune the image, and use the Manipulation and Annotation buttons to edit the image.

8. Transmit the edited image to the PACS.

9. When finished, press the X button to exit the program.

10. Turn off the user PC and then turn off the Detector.
