queueId: ingest-1781569954422-1ac2
sourcePath: raw/sources/Project/02_CYAN/4. 시험소 제출자료(601-1)/6. Usability/3. A-UEF-CYN_Usability Engineering File (Rev.0 250915).docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/Project/_combined/2fc2b0206af9/3. A-UEF-CYN_Usability Engineering File (Rev.0 250915)__2fc2b0206af9_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 024fc1d01323
productSignal: CYAN
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 1887

SOURCE_TEXT
Usability Engineering File

GT Series

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model name: GT1717C, GT1717CP

Report No.: A-UEF-CYN (Rev.0)

Prepared by

Reviewed by

Approved by

Name

Jimin Han

Kyungsoo Lee

Namkyu Hur

Position

RA team

R&D Manager

Quality Manager

Date

September 15, 2025

September 15, 2025

September 15, 2025

Signature

Revision History

Revision No.

Rev. Date

Description of changes

0

September 15, 2025

Initial release

CONTENTS

1. Introduction 5

1.1 Purpose of the Document 5

1.2 Scope 5

1.3 Applicable standards and Guidelines 5

1.4 Accompanying Document of Usability Engineering File 5

2. Terms and Definitions 6

2.1 Abnormal use 6

2.2 Accompanying documentation 6

2.3 Correct use 6

2.4 Effectiveness 6

2.5 Efficiency 6

2.6 Expected service life 6

2.7 Formative evaluation 6

2.8 Hazard-related use scenario 7

2.9 Normal use 7

2.10 Patient 7

2.11 Primary operating function 7

2.12 Responsible organization 7

2.13 Summative evaluation 7

2.14 Task 7

2.15 UOUP 7

2.16 Usability 7

2.17 Usability engineering 7

2.18 Usability engineering file 7

2.19 Usability test 8

2.20 Use environment 8

2.21 Use error 8

2.22 Use scenario 8

2.23 Use specification 8

2.24 User 8

2.25 User group 8

2.26 User interface 8

2.27 User interface evaluation 8

2.28 User interface specification 8

3. Usability Engineering Process 9

3.1 Overview of the Usability Engineering Process 9

3.1.1 Usability Engineering Process 10

3.1.2 Risk Control as it relates to User Interface design 10

3.1.3 Information for Safety as it relates to Usability 10

3.1.4 Usability Engineering File 10

3.1.5 Tailoring of the Usability Engineering effort 11

3.2 Key Steps in Usability Engineering 11

3.2.1 Preparing the Usability Specification 11

3.2.2 Identifying Hazard-Related Use Scenarios 11

3.2.3 Performing Formative Evaluations 11

3.2.4 Conducting User Interface Evaluation 11

4. Usability Specification 12

4.1 Prepare use specification 12

4.1.1 Intended medical indication 12

4.1.2 Intended patient population 12

4.1.3 Intended User Profile 12

4.1.4 Intended part of the body or type of tissue applied to or interacted with 12

4.1.5 Use environment 12

4.1.6 Operating principle 13

4.2.2 Function related to safety 13

4.3.1 Identify known hazards and hazardous situations 14

4.3.2 Identify foreseeable hazards and hazardous situations 14

4.4 Identify and describe hazard related use scenarios 15

4.5 Select the hazard-related use scenarios for summative evaluation 16

4.6 Perform Summative Evaluation of the usability 16

Introduction

Purpose of the Document

This document specifies the usability engineering process for the Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector (Model: GT1717C, GT1717CP). It consolidates all activities related to analyzing, specifying, designing, verifying, and validating usability. The purpose is to ensure safety by mitigating risks related to usability problems. This document complies with IEC 62366-1:2015.

Variant model differences

: The two products differ only in CsI deposition thickness, as shown below, and are identical in usability.

GT1717C : 300um

GT1717CP : 500um

Scope

This document covers the usability engineering process, including the usability specification, formative and summative evaluations, risk management, and validation activities for the Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector.

Product name: Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model name: GT1717C, GT1717CP

Intended used: The Digital X-ray Imaging System is indicated for digital imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic system.

Not to be used for mammography..

Applicable standards and Guidelines

Standard No.

Standard Title

IEC 60601-1-6

Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-6: General requirements for basic safety and essential performance - Collateral standard: Usability

IEC 62366-1

Medical devices – Application of usability engineering to medical Devices

IEC TR 62366-2

Medical devices — Part 2: Guidance on the application of usability engineering to medical devices

EN ISO 14971

Medical Devices – Application of risk management to medical devices

Accompanying Document of Usability Engineering File

No.

Usability Engineering Process

Doc. No.

Rev.

Document title

1

Prepare Use specification

A-UEF-CYN

1

Usability Engineering File

2

Identify user interface characteristics related to safety and potential use errors

3

Identify known or foreseeable hazards and hazardous situations

4

Identify and describe hazard-related use scenarios

5

Select the hazard-related use for summative evaluation

6

Establish user interface specification

7

Establish user interface evaluation plan

A-UVP-CYN

1

Usability Validation Plan

8

Perform User Interface design, implementation

A-UEF-CYN

1

Usability Engineering File

9

Perform Summative Evaluation of the Usability of the User Interface

A-UVR-CYN

1

Usability Validation Report

10

User Interface of Unknown Provenance

-

-

-

Terms and Definitions

Abnormal use

conscious, deliberate act or deliberate omission of an act that is counter to or violates NORMAL USE and is also beyond any further reasonable means of USER INTERFACE-related RISK CONTROL by the MANUFACTURER

Figure1. Relationship of the types of use

Accompanying documentation

materials accompanying a MEDICAL DEVICE and containing information for the USER or those accountable for the installation, use, maintenance, decommissioning and disposal of the MEDICAL DEVICE, particularly regarding safe use

Correct use

normal use without use error

Effectiveness

accuracy and completeness with which users achieve specified goals

Efficiency

resources expended in relation to effectiveness

Expected service life

time period specified by the manufacturer during which the medical device is expected to remain safe for use (i.e. maintain basic safety and essential performance)

Formative evaluation

user interface evaluation conducted with the intent to explore user interface design strengths, weaknesses, and unanticipated use errors

Hazard-related use scenario

use scenario that could lead to a hazardous situation or harm

Normal use

operation, including routine inspection and adjustments by any user, and stand-by, according to the instructions for use or in accordance with generally accepted practice for those medical devices provided without instructions for use

 Patient

living being (person) undergoing a medical, surgical or dental procedure

 Primary operating function

function that involves user interaction that is related to the safety of the medical device

 Responsible organization

entity accountable for the use and maintenance of a medical device or combination of medical devices

 Summative evaluation

user interface evaluation conducted at the end of the user interface development with the intent to obtain objective evidence that the user interface can be used safely

 Task

one or more user interactions with a medical device to achieve a desired result

 UOUP

User Interface Of Unknown Provenance

user interface or part of a user interface of a medical device previously developed for which adequate records of the usability engineering process of this standard are not available

 Usability

characteristic of the user interface that facilitates use and thereby establishes effectiveness, efficiency and user satisfaction in the intended use environment

 Usability engineering

Human Factors Engineering

application of knowledge about human behaviour, abilities, limitations, and other characteristics to the design of medical devices (including software), systems and tasks to achieve adequate usability

 Usability engineering file

set of records and other documents that are produced by the usability engineering process

 Usability test

method for exploring or evaluating a user interface with intended users within a specified intended use environment

 Use environment

actual conditions and setting in which users interact with the medical device

 Use error

user action or lack of user action while using the medical device that leads to a different result than that intended by the manufacturer or expected by the user

 Use scenario

specific sequence of tasks performed by a specific user in a specific use environment and any resulting response of the medical device

 Use specification

Application Specification

 User

person interacting with (i.e. operating or handling) the medical device

 User group

subset of users who are differentiated from other users by factors that are likely to influence their interactions with the medical device

 User interface

means by which the user and the medical device interact

 User interface evaluation

process by which the manufacturer explores or assesses the user interactions with the user interface

 User interface specification

collection of specifications that comprehensively and prospectively describe the user interface of a medical device

 Usability Engineering Process

Overview of the Usability Engineering Process

The usability engineering process involves analyzing, designing, and verifying the user interface to ensure it meets usability and safety requirements. This process includes formative evaluations for iterative improvement and summative evaluations for final validation.

Organization for Usability Engineering Process

Responsibility and Personnel

No.

Position

Responsibility

1

President or QA representative

Human and material resources assignment

Usability goals provided

2

R&D Director

Usability engineering process planning

Risk management for usability engineering

3

R&D Team

Prepare of Usability engineering File

4

QA Manager and Sales Manager

Participation for Usability Engineering validation

Usability Engineering Process

We establish, document, implement and maintain a usability engineering process as defined in clause 5 to provide safety for the patient, user and others. We may address user interactions with the medical device according to the accompanying documentation, including, but not limited to;

Preparation Before Use;

Operation;

Maintenance;

Risk Control as it relates to User Interface design

To reduce use-related risk, the manufacturer shall use one or more of the following options, in the priority listed (as required by ISO 14971:2019, 7.1):

Inherently safe design and manufacture;

Protective measures in the medical device itself or in the manufacturing process; and

Information for safety and, where appropriate, training to users.

Information for Safety as it relates to Usability

When in accordance with the priorities of 4.1.2, information for safety is used as a risk control measure, the manufacturer shall subject this information to the usability engineering process to determine that the information

Is perceivable by,

Is understandable to, and

Supports correct use of the medical device by

Users of the intended user profiles in the context of the intended use environment.

Conscious disregard of such information for safety by the user is considered to be an intentional act or intentional omission of an act that is counter to or violates normal use and is also beyond any further reasonable means of user interface-related risk control by the manufacturer (i.e. abnormal use).

Compliance is checked by inspection of the information for Safety and the Usability Engineering File.

Usability Engineering File

The results of the Usability Engineering Process shall be stored in the Usability Engineering File. The records and other documents that form the Usability Engineering File may form part of other documents and files.

Manufacturer’s product design file

Risk management file

Compliance is checked by inspection of the Usability Engineering File.

Tailoring of the Usability Engineering effort

The level of effort and the choice of methods and tools used to perform the Usability Engineering Process may vary based on:

The size and complexity of the User Interface;

The severity of the harm associated with the use of the Medical Device;

The extent or complexity of the Use Specification;

The presence of User Interface of Unknown Provenance; and

The extent of the modification to an existing Medical Device User Interface that had been subjected to the Usability Engineering Process

Compliance is checked by inspection of the Usability Engineering file.

Key Steps in Usability Engineering

Preparing the Usability Specification

Define usability requirements and performance goals.

Identify key tasks users will perform with the device.

Identifying Hazard-Related Use Scenarios

Analyze potential hazards related to device operation.

Define scenarios where use errors may result in safety risks.

Performing Formative Evaluations

Conduct iterative testing to identify and address usability issues during development.

Refine the user interface based on user feedback and testing results.

Conducting User Interface Evaluation

Evaluate the effectiveness and safety of the interface in realistic settings

Summarize feedback from formative and summative evaluations

Usability Specification

Prepare use specification

Intended medical indication

The Digital X-ray Imaging System is indicated for digital imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic system. Not to be used for mammography.

Intended patient population

No.

Characteristic

Description

1

Age group

Adult and Children (It is prohibited for the same patient (especially children) to receive high frequency imaging of the device for a long period.)

2

Weight range

No weight range

3

Patient’s health or condition

No restrictions

4

Nationality

No nationality restrictions

5

Patient group/state

except pregnant women

6

Applications parts

Part of body

7

Disease

Radiographic imaging of human body parts such as head, Chest, spinal, abdominal, particular, hand, foot and other internal organs.

Intended User Profile

: Radiographer

Intended part of the body or type of tissue applied to or interacted with

a) Using part: All parts (e.g., Head, Chest, Spine, Abdomen, Hand, feet and internal organs)

b) Symptoms: No limit

Use environment

No.

Characteristic

Description

1

Physical

Wearing an X-ray apron

2

Number of people

Not relevant

3

Equipment

X-ray

4

Temperature

Operation condition: 10℃ to 40℃

Storage condition: -20℃ to 55℃

5

Humidity

Operation condition: 15 to 90% relative humidity (non-condensing)

Storage condition: 10 to 95% relative humidity (non-condensing)

6

Air Pressure

Operation condition: 700 hPa to 1060 hPa

Storage condition: 500 hPa to 1060 hPa

7

Place

Hospital settings and mobile clinics.

Operating principle

This is a wired digital flat panel x-ray detector, a faster and more efficient digital radiography system. The detector is used in combination with a TFT glass and scintillator and supports automatic trigger signal detection technology that can be used without generator integration.

 The incident X-rays are converted into visible light that produces electron hole pairs in a photometer biased by scintillator material. The charge carrier is stored in the photodiode capacity. By pulse processing the gates of the TFT lines in the matrix, charges in all the columns are transferred in parallel with the signal output. All signals on the column are amplified by a custom Read Out IC for further processing.

 The amplified signal is digitized using an A/D converter integrated into the ROIC. The digitized signal is transmitted to the PC.

Identify user interface characteristics related to safety and potential use errors

Primary Operating Functions

Read the user manual and understand the functions and usage

Familiarize yourself with the safety warnings.

Connect product components

Product calibration

Prodcut power ON/OFF

Check the indicator

Product transportation.

Place the patient's imaging area on the detector

Cleaning method and verification of cleaning results

Function related to safety

LED that indicates the product's power ON/OFF status.

An indicator (LED) that indicates the Ethernet connection status.

A calibration function for initializing the product.

Guidelines for precise positioning of the shooting area.

A handle for convenient carrying.

Identification of characteristics related to the safety and potential use errors

Characteristics related to safety have been identified according to the questionnaire based on questionnaire based on ISO/TR 24971, A.2.31 to A.2.37 provides a list of questions that can be used to identify user interface characteristics that could impact safety.

(Refer to Risk Management Report (Doc No. A-RMR-CYN)

Use scenario

In consideration of the primary operation function and the identified user interface characteristics in 4.2.1, the use scenario is identified.

Use scenarios related to the primary operating functions

1

Check the User manual

2

Preparation for using the product

3

product use

4

Maintenance

Task analysis according to the Use Scenarios in section 4.2.4

1

Check the User manual

1.1

Read the user manual and understand the functions and usage

1.2

Familiarize yourself with the safety warnings.

2

Preparation for using the product

2.1

Connect product components

2.2

Product calibration

3

Product use

3.1

Prodcut power ON/OFF

3.2

Check the indicator

3.3

Product transportation.

3.4

Place the patient's imaging area on the detector.

4

Maintenance

4.1

Cleaning method and verification of cleaning results

Identify known or foreseeable hazards and hazardous situations

The H&abyz Co., Ltd. identifies known or foreseeable HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS, which could affect PATIENTS, USERS, or others, related to the use of the MEDICAL DEVICE.

Identify known hazards and hazardous situations

We investigated information about known hazards and hazardous situations in existing user interfaces for similar types of medical devices. However, there were no hazards and hazardous situations associated with use errors.

Please refer to the A-PMS-CYN Post-market Surveillance for further information on this.

Identify foreseeable hazards and hazardous situations

Foreseeable hazards and hazardous situations were identified tasks as Performed by a Specified User

Use scenarios related to risk factors 1: Check User Manual

위해 요인 관련 사용 시나리오 1: 사용자 설명서 확인

Task

Usage Error

Risk ID

Risk

Severity

Read the user manual and understand the functions and usage사용자 설명서를 읽고 기능과 사용법 이해

Not reading the instructions thoroughly.

사용설명서를 충분히 숙지하지 않음.

UR-01

Additional X-ray exposure due to delayed diagnosis and re-examination of the patient. 환자의 진단 지연 및 재촬영에 따른 X-ray 추가 노출

3

Familiarize yourself with the safety warnings. 안전 경고 문구 숙지

The user cannot find the safety information.

The user does not understand the precautions. (Difficult term, low readability)

사용자가 안전 정보를 찾을 수 없습니다.

사용자가 주의사항을 이해하지 못합니다. (어려운 용어, 낮은 가독성)

UR-02

Additional X-ray exposure due to delayed diagnosis and re-examination of the patient. 환자의 진단 지연 및 재촬영에 따른 X-ray 추가 노출

3

Use scenarios related to risk factors2: Preparing the product for use

위해 요인 관련 사용 시나리오 2: 제품 사용 준비

Connect product components.

제품 구성품 연결

The user is not familiar with how to connect the product components.

사용자가 제품 구성품 연결 방법을 숙지하지 못했습니다.

UR-03

Delayed diagnosis

of patients

환자의 진단 지연

1

Product calibration

제품 calibration

The user is not familiar with the calibration method.

사용자가 calibration 방법을 숙지하지 못했습니다.

UR-04

Additional X-ray exposure due to delayed diagnosis and re-examination of the patient. 환자의 진단 지연 및 재촬영에 따른 X-ray 추가 노출

3

Use scenarios related to risk factors 3: Product use

위해 요인 관련 사용 시나리오 3: 제품 사용

Product power ON/OFF

제품 전원 ON/OFF

The user is not familiar with how to turn the product on and off.

사용자가 제품 전원 ON/OFF 방법을 숙지하지 못했습니다.

UR-05

Delayed diagnosis

of patients

1

Check the indicator

The user is not familiar with the product's indicator status.

사용자가 제품의 indicator 상태를 숙지하지 못했습니다.

UR-06

Delayed diagnosis

of patients

1

Product transportation

제품 운반

Dropping the product

UR-07

Wound

2

Place the patient's imaging area on the detector.

환자의 촬영부위를 디텍터에 배치.

The user is not able to identify the shooting area.

사용자가 촬영영역을 식별하지 못합니다.

UR-08

Delayed diagnosis

of patients

1

Use scenarios related to risk factors 4: Maintenance

위해 요인 관련 사용 시나리오 4: 유지보수

Cleaning method and verification of cleaning results청소방법 및 청소결과 확인

User cannot determine the cleaning method.

User does not understand the cleaning method.

User cleans in an inappropriate manner.

UR-09

Delayed diagnosis

of patients

1

Identify and describe hazard related use scenarios

Considering that this medical device is a Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector, a related use scenario in which risk factors and risk situations can occur was constructed.

This hazard-related use scenario identifies possible use errors when using Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector, user interfaces that require improvement, and unexpected use errors.

It is written for identifying and analyzing the root cause of the use error for the user interface.

To identify the scenario, the results of the TASK analysis were selected to list all scenarios in which risk factors and risk situations could occur. The severity of the possible harm for each scenario is described.

Severity was qualitatively classified into five stages based on our risk management, and the table is as follows.

Category

Severity

Catastrophic

5

Death of patient, irreversible failure or disaster

Critical

4

Causing permanent damage or fatal injury

Serious

3

Injury or damage that requires professional medical technology.

Minor

2

Temporary injury that does not require professional medical treatment.

Negligible

1

Discomfort, temporary difficulty

Possible hazards for each detailed task are integrated and managed in the Risk Management Report(A-RMR-CYN).

Select the hazard-related use scenarios for summative evaluation

All usage scenarios we identified in section 5.4 were used for summative evaluation.

Please refer to Usability Validation Plan (A-UVP-CYN) for details.

Perform Summative Evaluation of the usability

The summative evaluation report contains the following information:

For each hazard-related scenario, a test record be established with:

The hazard-related scenario and alternative evaluated,

The goal of the evaluation,

The user-profile participating to the evaluation,

The environment of evaluation,

The duration of the evaluation,

The IFU provided to the user or no IFU,

The results of the evaluation,

A rationale for setting the result to (i) OK, (ii) not OK, (iii) more information needed, given the goal of the evaluation.

The summative evaluation report ends with a discussion on the overall compliance of the results obtained for all tests. The result of the discussion is one of the three following states:

Compliant:

All tests are OK,

All risks related to usability are acceptable,

No additional data required,

Partially compliant:

At least one test is not OK,

No unacceptable risk is remaining but at least one risk is tolerable,

Additional data shall be collected by PMS and/or PMCF,

Not compliant:

At least one test is not OK,

At least one unacceptable risk is remaining,

Additional studies or design changes are required.

The summative evaluation report is recorded in Usability Validation Report (Doc. No. A-UVR-CYN).
