queueId: ingest-1781569954383-d1k
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/02_ADD (HAD1417MCW)/▶ CE MDD/■ 8. ADD(HAD1417MCW) H&abyz 인증관련 자료  20220203 (CE Dimdi)/4. TCF/09. Usability Engineering File/09-01. Usability Engineering Report (Doc.No.A-TCF-5-056(rev.0)).docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/27c73000825a/09-01. Usability Engineering Report (Doc.No.A-TCF-5-056(rev.0))__27c73000825a_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: f9258bd8547a
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 1361

SOURCE_TEXT
Usability Engineering Report

for

ADD

Abyz Digital Detector

Report No.: A-TCF-5-056 (Rev.0)

Dept. / Title

Name

Date

Signature

Prepared

R&D team

Jung, Woosuk

MAY/27/2020

Review

R&D Manager

Lee, Dong jin

MAY/27/2020

Approval

QA representative

Hur Namkyu

MAY/27/2020

Revision history

Rev. No.

Rev. date

Revision contents

Remark

0

MAY/27/2020

Establishment

Contents

1 Introduction 4

2 Reference 4

3 Terms and Definitions 4

4 Usability Engineering Plan 7

4.1 Organization for Usability Engineering Process 7

4.2 Responsibility and Personnel 7

4.3 Usability Engineering Process and Requirements 7

5 Usability Engineering Process 11

5.1 Application Specification 11

5.1.1 Intended Medical Indication 11

5.1.2 Intended Patient Population 11

5.1.3 Intended part of the body or type of tissue applied to or interacted with 11

5.1.4 Intended USER PROFILE 11

5.1.5 Intended Conditions of Use 11

5.1.6 Operating Principle 12

5.2 Frequently Used Functions 13

5.3 Identification of HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS related to Usability 13

5.3.1 Identification of Characteristics related to Safety 13

5.3.2 Identification of Known or foreseeable HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS 14

5.4 Primary Operating Functions 17

5.4.1 Frequently used functions 17

5.4.2 Functions related to Safety 17

5.5 Usability Specification 17

5.5.1 Use Scenarios related to the primary operating function 17

5.5.2 USER INTERFACE Requirements for the PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS, including those to Mitigate Risk 18

5.5.3 Requirements for determining whether PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS are easily recognizable by the USER 18

5.5.4 Testable requirements for Usability of the Primary Operating Functions 오류! 책갈피가 정의되어 있지 않습니다.

5.6 Usability Validation Plan 19

5.7 User Interface Design and Implementation 19

5.8 Usability Verification 19

5.8.1 Usability Verification Result 20

5.9 Usability Validation 20

6 Conclusion 20

Introduction

This document specifies a process for a manufacturer to analyse, specify, design, verify and validate usability, as it relates to safety of. This usability engineering process assesses and mitigates risks caused by usability problems associated with correct use and use errors, i.e. NORMAL USE.

Manufacturer:

H&abyz

Product Name:

Abyz Digital Detector

Model Name:

ADD

Reference

EN 60601-1-6:2010 Medical electrical equipment Part 1-6: General requirements for safety – Collateral standard: UsabilityIEC 60601-1-6:2010 + A1:2013 Medical electrical equipment Part 1-6: General requirements for safety – Collateral standard: Usability

EN 62366 [2008] Application of usability engineering to medical devicesIEC 62366:2007+A1:2014 Application of usability engineering to medical devices

EN ISO 14971[2012] Medical devices – Application of risk management to medical devicesISO 14971 [2007] Medical devices -- Application of risk management to medical devices

Terms and Definitions

Abnormal use

Intentional act or intentional omission of an act by the RESPONSIBLE ORGANIZATION or USER of a MEDICAL DEVICE as a result of conduct that is beyond any further reasonable means of RISK CONTROL by the MANUFACTURER.

Accompanying document

Accompanying a MEDICAL DEVICE and containing information for those accountable for the installation, use and maintenance of the MEDICAL DEVICE or the USER, particularly regarding SAFETY.

Alarm limit

Threshold used by an ALARM SYSTEM to determine an ALARM CONDITION.

Alarm off

State of indefinite duration in which an ALARM SYSTEM or part of an ALARM SYSTEM does not generate ALARM SIGNALS.

Alarm signal

Type of signal generated by the ALARM SYSTEM to indicate the presence (or occurrence) of an ALARM CONDITION.

Alarm system

Parts of the MEDICAL DEVICE that detect ALARM CONDITIONS and, as appropriate, generate ALARM SIGNALS.

Correct use

NORMAL USE without USE ERROR.

Effectiveness

Measure of accuracy and completeness with which USERS achieve specified goals.

Efficiency

EFFECTIVENESS in relation to the resources expended.

Information signal

Any signal that is not an ALARM SIGNAL or a REMINDER SIGNAL.

Medical device

Any instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, appliance, implant, in vitro reagent or calibrator, software, material or other similar or related article, intended by the MANUFACTURER to be used, alone or in combination, for human beings for one or more of the specific purpose(s) of

diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, alleviation of or compensation for an injury,

investigation, replacement, modification, or support of the anatomy or of a physiological PROCESS,

supporting or sustaining life,

control of conception,

disinfection of MEDICAL DEVICES,

providing information for medical purposes by means of in vitro examination of specimens derived from the human body,

and which does not achieve its primary intended action in or on the human body by pharmacological, immunological or metabolic means, but which can be assisted in its function by such means.

Normal use

Operation, including routine inspection and adjustments by any USER, and stand-by, according to the instructions for use or in accordance with generally accepted practice for those MEDICAL DEVICES provided without instructions for use.

Patient

Living being (person) undergoing a medical, surgical or dental procedure.

Primary operating function

Function that involves USER interaction that is either frequently used or related to the SAFETY of the MEDICAL DEVICE.

Reminder signal

Periodic signal that reminds the USE that the ALARM SYSTEM is in an ALARM SIGNAL inactivation state.

Responsible organization

Entity accountable for the use and maintenance of a MEDICAL DEVICE or combination of MEDICAL DEVICES.

Usability

Characteristic of the USER INTERFACE that establishes EFFECTIVENESS, EFFICIENCY, ease of USER learning and USER satisfaction.

Usability engineering

Application of knowledge about human behavior, abilities, limitations, and other characteristics related to the design of tools, devices, systems, tasks, jobs, and environments to achieve adequate USABILITY.

Usability engineering file

Set of RECORDS and other documents that are produced by the USABILITY ENGINEERING PROCESS.

Usability specification

Documentation defining the USER INTERFACE requirements related to USABILITY.

Use error

Act or omission of an act that results in a different MEDICAL DEVICE response than intended by the MANUFACTURER or expected by the USER.

note1) Use error includes slips, lapses, and mistakes.

note2) an unexpected physiological response of the PATIENT is not in itself considered USE ERROR.

Use scenario

Specified sequence of events and tasks as performed by a specified USER in a specified environment.

User

Person suing, i.e. operating or handing, the MEDICAL DEVICE.

note1) this includes, but is not limited to, cleaners, maintainers and installers. note2) PATIENTS or other laypersons can be USERS.

User interface

Men by which the USER and the MEDICAL DEVICE interact.

Note) The ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENT is considered part of the MEDICAL DEVICE and its USER INTERFACE.

User profile

Summary of the mental, physical and demographic traits of an intended USER population, as well as any special characteristics that can have a bearing on design decisions, such as occupational skills and job requirements.

Validation

Confirmation, through the provision of OBJECTIVE EVIDENCE, that the requirements for a specific INTENDED USE or application have been fulfilled

Usability Engineering Plan

Organization for Usability Engineering Process

Responsibility and Personnel

No.

Position

Responsibility

1

President or QA representative

Human and material resources assignment

Usability goals provided

2

R&D Director

Usability engineering process planning

Risk management for usability engineering

3

R&D Team

Prepare of Usability engineering File

4

QA Manager and Sales Manager

Participation for Usability Engineering validation

Usability Engineering Process and Requirements

Usability Process

Requirements

Application specification

- Description, intended use

- Medical purpose

- Intended PATIENT population

- Intended part of the body or type of tissue applied to or interacted with

- Intended user profile

- Intended conditions of use

- Operating principle

Frequently used functions

Shall determine the frequently used functions that involve user interaction with the medical device.

Characteristics related to safety

An identification of characteristics related to safety (part of a RISK ANALYSIS) that focuses on usability shall be performed according to ISO 14971:2012, 4.2. During the identification characteristics related to safety, the following shall be considered:

- application specification, including user profile(s); and

- Frequently used functions.

Identification of known or foreseeable HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS

Shall identify known or foreseeable HAZARDS (part of a RISK ANALYSIS) related to usability according to ISO 14971:2012, 4.3. The identification of HAZARDS shall consider HAZARDS to patients, users and other persons. The SEVERITY of the resulting possible HARM shall be determined.

The following shall be considered:

- application specification, including user profile(s)

- task related requirements;

- context of use;

- information on HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS known for existing user INTERFACES of MEDICAL DEVICES of a similar type, if available;

- preliminary use scenarios;

- possible use errors

- if an incorrect mental model of the operation of the medical device can cause a use error resulting in a HAZARDOUS SITUATION; and

- Results of the review of the user interface.

Primary operating functions

The inputs to the primary operating functions shall include the following:

- frequently used functions

- Functions related to safety of the medical device.

Usability specification

The usability specification shall provide:

- testable requirements for usability verification; and

- testable requirements for usability of the primary operating functions including criteria for determining the adequacy of risk control achieved by the usability engineering process.

The inputs to the usability specification shall include the following: - application specification;

- primary operating functions;

- HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS related to usability; and

- Known or foreseeable use errors associated with the medical device.

The usability specification shall describe at least:

- use scenarios related to the primary operating functions, including;

- frequent use scenarios; and -reasonably foreseeable worst case use scenarios;

- user interface requirements for the primary operating functions, including those to mitigate risk;

- Requirements for determining whether primary operating functions are easily recognizable by the user.

Usability validation plan

The usability validation plan shall specify:

- any method used for validation of the usability of the primary operating functions;

- the criteria for determining successful validation of the usability of the primary operating functions based on the usability specification; and

- The involvement of representative intended users.

User interface design and implementation

Risk control uses one or more of the following in the priority listed: a) inherent safety by design;

b) protective measures in the medical device itself or in the manufacturing process, e.g. alarm systems;

c) Information for safety, e.g. warnings in the instructions for use, display of a monitored variable, training and materials for training, maintenances details.

Usability verification

Shall verify the implementation of the medical device user interface design against the requirements of the usability specification.

If it is unsatisfactory, repeat the previous steps to run.

Usability validation

Shall validate usability of the medical device according to the usability validation plan.

If the acceptance criteria documented in the usability validation plan are not met:

- further user interface design and implementation activities shall be performed; or

- if further improvement is not practicable, the manufacturer may gather and review data and literature to determine if the medical benefits of the intended use outweigh the risk arising from usability problems. If this evidence does not support the conclusion that the medical benefits outweigh the risk, then the risk is unacceptable.

The accompanying document shall include a concise description of the medical device which includes, where relevant to its use:

- operating principle;

- significant physical characteristics;

- significant performance characteristics; and

- intended user profile.

If training on the specific medical device is required for the safe and effective use of a primary operating function by the intended user, the manufacturer shall do at least one of the following :

- provide the material necessary for training;

- ensure that the materials necessary for training are available; or

- provide the training.

Production and post-production information

Review if the system that collect and review information of medical devices are established.

Usability Engineering Process

Application Specification

Intended Medical Indication

ADD(Abyz Digital Detector), Digital Flat Panel X-Ray Detector is indicated for digital imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic systems and provide more precise case diagnosis and treatment planning on a real time basis for physicians and radiologists. Not to be used for mammography.

Intended Patient Population

Radiographic imaging of human body parts such as head, Chest, spinal, abdominal, particular, hand, foot and other internal organs.

a) Age: Adult and Children

b) Weight: not relevant

c) Height: not relevant

d) Nationality: multiple

e) Patient group/state: except pregnant women

d) Applications parts: Part of body

f) Disease: Radiographic imaging of human body parts such as head, Chest, spinal, abdominal,

particular, hand, foot and other internal organs.

Intended part of the body or type of tissue applied to or interacted with

a) Using part: All parts (e.g. Head, Chest, Spine, Abdomen, Hand, feet and internal organs)

b) Symptoms: No limit

Intended USER PROFILE

It is important to design a MEDICAL DEVICE tailored to the intended USER. Factors that should be considered when developing user profile include education, knowledge, language, experience and disability. We considered the factors as follows.

a) Education: at least have the ability to read the manual

b) Knowledge: User must be read and understand user manual.

c) Language understanding: Language displayed on the label or user manual.

d) Experience: Radiologist

e) To allow a disability:

- Mild reading eyesight impairment or corrected eyesight on log MAR 0.2(6/10 or 20/32)

- Equipment along the one touch or grasp the arm / hand

- Average degree of age-related short-term memory damage

- 40% damage due to normal hearing ranging from 500Hz to 2KHz.

Intended Conditions of Use

Environment:

General

Hospital, intended for professional use

Operation condition

Temperature: 5℃ to 40℃

Humidity: 30 to 75% relative humidity (non-condensing)

Air Pressure: 700 hPa to 1060 hPa

Storage condition

Temperature: -10℃ to 50℃

Humidity: 10 to 80% relative humidity (non-condensing)

Air Pressure: 500 hPa to 1060 hPa

Frequency of use

General daily use

: Less than 9 hours per day

Reasonably foreseeable worst case use scenarios

: Assume continuous use for battery charging (using a day 24 Hours)

Operating Principle

To obtain an X-ray image with any type of X-ray image detector the part of the patient to be X-rayed is placed between the X-ray source and the image receptor to produce a shadow of the internal structure of that particular part of the body. X-rays are partially attenuated by dense tissues such as bone, and pass more easily through soft tissues. Areas where the X-rays strike darken when developed, causing bones to appear lighter than the surrounding soft tissue.

 Indirect type detectors are made up of a scintillator to convert x-rays to visible light and a phosphor to convert the light to electrons, which is read by a TFT array. The TFT array consists of a sheet of glass covered with a thin layer of silicon that is in an amorphous or disordered state. At a microscopic scale, the silicon has been imprinted with millions of transistors arranged in a highly ordered array, like the grid on a sheet of graph paper. Each of these thin-film transistors (TFTs) is attached to a light-absorbing photodiode making up an individual pixel. Photons striking the photodiode are converted into two carriers of electrical charge, called electron-hole pairs. Since the number of charge carriers produced will vary with the intensity of incoming light photons, an electrical pattern is created that can be swiftly converted to a voltage and then a digital signal, which is interpreted by a computer to produce a digital image. The generated digital image data is transferred to a PC.

Frequently Used Functions

Familiarize yourself with the user manual before and after the product

Connecting the power cord to the power supply

Connecting the Data Cable to the Power Supply and the Detector

Connecting the LAN cable to the power supply

Trigger cable connection to power supply

LAN cable and PC main body connection

Connecting the communication cable to the power supply

Power on the detector

Arrange the patient in the correct position to have detector aligned with the target body part

Calibration of detector by S/W in PC

Identification of HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS related to Usability

Identification of Characteristics related to Safety

EN 62366 Annex E Question check list

EN 62366 Annex E Question

A or N/A

Comments

E.2.1 Is the Medical device supplied sterile or intended to be sterilized by the user, or are other microbiological controls applicable?

N/A

Not any parts are intended to be sterilized

E.2.2 Are Measurements taken?

N/A

Just X-ray image is taken

E.2.3 Is the Medical device intended for use in conjunction with medicines or other medical technologies?

A

X-ray device (Generator)

Picture Archiving and Communication System (PACS)

Modality Worklist (MWL)

E.2.4 Are there unwanted outputs of energy or substances?

A

There are Lead temperature, Patient leakage current. Enclosure Leakage current, Earth Leakage current and verified and validated by safe Design & validation; refer to EMC test report

E.2.5 Is the Medical device susceptible to environmental Influences?

A

Yes, Device could potentially emit, or be affected by, electromagnetic interference, refer to EMC test report.

E.2.6 Are there essential consumables or accessories associated with the Medical device?

A

List of consumables and accessories are in user manual.

E.2.7 Is maintenance and/or calibration necessary

A

The ADD will need periodic calibration.

E.2.8 Does the Medical device have a restricted shelf-life?

N/A

No have shelf-life

E.2.9 Are there any delayed or long term use effects?

N/A

No such effect

E.2.10 To what mechanical forces will the Medical device subjected?

N/A

No mechanical force is required or used

E.2.11 Is the Medical device intended for Single use?

N/A

No single use

E.2.12 Does installation or use of the Medical device require special training or special skills?

A

Need professional use

E.2.13 How will information for safe use be provided?

A

Provided user manual and label

E.2.14 Can the user interface design features contribute to use error?

A

UI have specified design features

E.2.15 Is the Medical device used in an environment where distractions are common place?

N/A

Use only in hospital

E.2.16 Does the Medical device have connecting parts or accessories?

A

There is some accessories to connect the device like power supply, connector etc.

E.2.17 Does the Medical device have a control interface?

N/A

It does not have a control interface.

E.2.18 How is information displayed by the Medical device?

N/A

Not displayed by the medical device

E.2.19 Is the Medical device controlled by a menu?

N/A

No have menu UI

E.2.20 Will the Medical device be used by persons with special needs?

N/A

No limit

E.2.21 In what way(s) might the Medical device be deliberately misused?

N/A

Fixed output

E.2.22 Is the Medical device intended to be mobile or portable?

A

Portable device

Identification of Known or foreseeable HAZARDS and HAZARDOUS SITUATIONS(Context of use)

IEC 62366 Hazards

ID No.

Example

A or N/A

Harm to User or Patient

Spatial context

architecture

N/A

There has no risk to the structure.

outdoor

N/A

There is no risk to the outdoor.

Patient transport

N/A

This device is not intended to be used during the patient transport.

Smoothness and inclination or floor

N/A

There is no risk to the location of Smoothness and inclination or floor.

location of emergency or accident

N/A

There is no risk to the location of emergency or accident.

Social context

organization

N/A

There is no risk to the organization.

Transition of care

N/A

There is no risk to the transition of care.

Presence of unattended children

N/A

There is risk to the presence of unattended children.

Presence of untrained or curious adults

N/A

There is risk to the presence of untrained or curious adults.

responsibility

N/A

There is no risk to the responsibility.

Technological context

Other technical devices which are required for use of the MD

N/A

This device is not intended to be used in conjunction with other technical devices.

Other technical devices which might influence the use of the MD

N/A

There is no risk to other technical devices which might influence the use of this device

Other technical devices which are affected by the use of the MD

N/A

There is no risk to other technical devices which are affected by the use of this device.

Effect of other devices on the MD

N/A

There is no effect of other devices on this device.

Hygienic context

Requirements for cleanliness sterile condition

N/A

This device is intended to be sterilized by the user.

Facilities for cleaning

N/A

There is no risk to the Facilities for cleaning.

Facilities for waste disposal

N/A

There is no risk to the Facilities for waste disposal

Physical context:

climate condition

N/A

There is risk to the climate condition.

Acceleration movement of frame of reference

N/A

There is no risk to the acceleration movement.

light level

N/A

There is no risk to the light level.

ambient noise

N/A

There is no risk to the ambient noise.

Activity context

distraction

N/A

There is risk to the distraction.

UR-01

Other tasks which can interfere with the operation of the MD

A

ADD can be operated with PC for calibration

surprise/startle effect

N/A

There is no risk to the surprise/startle effect.

strain and stress

N/A

There is no risk to the strain and stress.

UR-02

Influence on the working environment

A

MEE generates electromagnetic wave and uses in environment which electromagnetic waves are generated

Alterations of the work environment that could affect other MD

N/A

There is no alterations of the work environment that could affect other MD.

workload and fatigue

N/A

There is no workload and fatigue.

UR-03

Product context

User control error

A

User can cause UI control error

UR-04

Indicator error

A

ADD have indicators.

UR-05

Battery use error

A

ADD have battery.

Primary Operating Functions

Frequently used functions

Please refer to the Clause ‘5.2 Frequently used functions’

Functions related to Safety

a) Detector / Power supply

- Power On/off button

- LED indication:

Item

Power button position

Status

① Detector

Right side

Normal state when the 'Power' indicator is illuminated in white

② Power Supply

Front

Normal state when switch side is illuminated in green

③ Switch Box

No power button

Power status indicator will be indicated by a green light in a normal status.

b) Battery

- Battery remaining volume

 - If the battery is not charging

Indicator

Battery status

LED 1, 2, 3 and 4 on

76% to 100%

LED 1, 2 and 3 on

51% to 75%

LED 1 and 2 on

26% to 50%

LED 1 on

11% to 25%

LED 1 off (roughly at the interval of 0.5 seconds)

Less than 10%

- If the battery is charging

Indicator

Battery status

LED 1, 2 and 3 on and LED 4 off

76% to 100%

LED 1 and 2 on and LED 3 off

51% to 75%

LED 1 on and LED 2 off

26% to 50%

LED 1 off

11% to 25%

LED 1 off (roughly at the interval of 0.5 seconds)

Less than 10%

Usability Specification

Use Scenarios related to the primary operating function

Frequent use scenarios

Familiarize yourself with the user manual before and after the product

Connecting the power cord to the power supply

Connecting the Data Cable to the Power Supply and the Detector

Connecting the LAN cable to the power supply

Trigger cable connection to power supply

LAN cable and PC main body connection

Connecting the communication cable to the power supply

Power on the detector

Arrange the patient in the correct position to have detector aligned with the target body part

Calibration of detector by S/W in PC

Use Scenarios related to the Reasonably Foreseeable Worst Case

Identification

Sequence of Events /

Tasks as Performed by a Specified User

During Normal Use

Wiring disconnection to Detector => no reading

Not attention to Detector’s ready before X-ray exposures => no reading or inappropriate image result

Use Errors

Wrong wiring of interface cable from X-ray machine to Detector

Dropping

Applying excessive force

Wrong calibration in the control software

Environment

High temperature => failure of function

Water/humidity => failure of electronic/electric shock

Patient

Positioning by holding a Detector

Reading and manipulation

Selection of mode before taking x-ray images

Set up network configuration for use

USER INTERFACE Requirements for the PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS, including those to Mitigate Risk

Write user-friendly, easy-to-understand instructions on how to use the product.

Add the instructions how to turn on the device

Add the instructions that check the operation of the device before using the device

Add the instructions how to clean the device

Add the instructions how to storage the device

Simple use method

Can’t control output

Add the indicator

Requirements for determining whether PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS are easily recognizable by the USER

Font style/font size of the user manual

Indicator

Simple component configuration

Arrange controls and displays to facilitate user tasks

Usability Validation Plan

Refer to Usability Validation Plan (Doc. No. A-TCF-5-039)

User Interface Design and Implementation

We design the User Interface including the following requirements. Refer to ‘5.5.2 USER INTERFACE requirements for the PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS, including those to mitigate risk’ and ‘5.5.4 Requirements for determining whether PRIMARY OPERATING FUNCTIONS are easily recognizable by the USER.’

Usability Verification Checklist

UI ID No.

UI Item

UI Requirement

UI Specification

UI-01

Button

Power Button

Location of the button

UI-02

Accessories

Switch Box, Power supply, Battery Charger

Instructions for connecting accessories in user manual

UI-03

LED indicator

Detector, Power supply, Switch Box, Battery Charger, Battery

LED Indicator

Refer to 5.3.2 Functions related to safety

UI-04

Manual

Understanding

Simplify language for ease of understanding and use visuals and graphics to facilitate

UI-05

Safety instruction

To meet the labelling requirement according to IEC 60601-1

User manual

UI-06

Language

Korean, English

UI-07

Product Label

Understanding

Symbols and description

Usability Verification

In the Clause 5.7 ‘User Interface design and Implementation’, It contains the UI that must be designed for the product, and it is verified in this clause that the UI implemented in the product. The details of each UI are mentioned in the Column of Clause 5.7 (UI Requirement, UI specification). For each item, proceed with verification as shown in the following table.

UI ID Number

Testable requirements

Result

Write the UI ID Number identified in Clause 5.7

Ensure that the items mentioned in the column of Clause 5.7 ('UI Requirement', 'UI Specification') are implemented in the product.

If there are any deficiencies in the Requirement and Specification, please fill them out in this column.

If everything is satisfied, write 'No issues' in this column.

If the verification for each UI ID Number is ‘No issues’ in the verification column, It is ‘pass’. And if there are deficiencies in the verification column, it is ‘non-pass’.

Usability Verification Result

UI ID Number

Verification

Result

UI-01

No issues

Pass

UI-02

No issues

Pass

UI-03

No issues

Pass

UI-04

No issues

Pass

UI-05

No issues

Pass

UI-06

No issues

Pass

UI-07

No issues

Pass

Usability Validation

Refer to Usability Validation Report (Doc. No. A-TCF-5-040)

Conclusion

Through the investigation for Post-Market of the product we were reflected case of an error related the customer complaints and placed by usability.

So far advanced risk management process is able to promote the safety of the product through the identification of hazards and risk control measures are sufficient.

The control measure for individual residual risk was the major action to reduce the levels of total residual risk. Through overall residual risk assessment, we are confirmed that overall of the residual risk can be accepted.
