queueId: ingest-1781569954396-qmd
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/01_HAD1717MC(MG)/▶ CE MDD/인허가 준비 자료(초기)/18. Appendix (ce 인증 문서 작성 icmc)/Appendix 3. Risk Management/A-RMP-01 Risk Management Plan (en).docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/8fa0f482b6f5/A-RMP-01 Risk Management Plan (en)__8fa0f482b6f5_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 463357485b81
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 1368

SOURCE_TEXT
Risk Management Plan

Document No.

A-RMP-5-01

Issue Date

2019.06.13

Revision Date / Rev. No.

0

Document Control

 Controlled

 Non-controlled

Name

Date

Signature

Created by:

Jung Kyung Kyun

2019.06.13

Reviewed by:

Hur Nam Kyu

2019.06.13

Approved by:

Song Won

2019.06.13

Revision History

Revision No.

Rev. Date

Revision Description

0

2019.6.13

First edition

OVERVIEW

The purpose of this procedure is to prevent the occurrence of any loss of or damage to body or property of the people related to the use of this product including users, operators or patients by identifying hazards and minimizing or eliminating the potential risks or harms from the entire life cycle process of the product including design, production, sale and shipping. This procedure ensures that the entire elements of the risk management process specified in EN ISO14971:2012 and the risk management are carried out effectively so that patients (customers) are provided with products with low risk.

Scope of Risk Management Plan

The scope of this risk management plan applies to statutory and specification requirements required for the X-ray detector, which are manufactured and sold by H&abyz Co., Ltd. and the information management of the production and post-production during the product design and development step.

2.1 Related Standard and Requirements

Legal requirements

Council Directive 93/42/EEC as amended by 2007/47/EC of 5 September 2007 concerning medical devices.

Medical Device Act, Enforcement Regulations of the Medical Device Act

Standards for Manufacture and Quality Management of Medical Device

Standard requirements

EN ISO 13485: 2016 (Medical Device Quality Management System)

EN ISO 14971: 2012 (Medical Device Risk Management)

EN ISO 15223-1:2016 (Medical devices - Symbols to be used with medical device labels, labelling and information to be supplied - Part 1: General requirements)

EN 1041:2008 (Information supplied by the manufacturer with medical devices)

ISO 11737-1 (Sterilization of medical devices—Microbiological methods—part 1: Determination of a Population of microorganisms on products)

ISO 11737-2 (Sterilization of medical devices—Microbiological methods—part 2: Tests of sterility Performed in the validation of a sterilization process)

ISO 14644 (Clean rooms and associated controlled environments-Classification of airborne molecular contamination)

MEDDEV 2.7/1 rev.3 Clinical Evaluation: Guide for manufacturers and notified bodies.

MEDDEV 2.12/1 rev.8 Guidelines on medical device vigilance system

MEDDEV 2.12/2 rev.2 Post Market Clinical Follow-up Studies.

IEC 60601-1[2012] Medical electrical equipment Part 1: General requirements

IEC 60601-1-2[2007] Medical electrical equipment Part 1: General requirements

3.0 Terms and Definitions

Adapted from EN ISO 14971:2012 Cl. 2. Terms and definitions

3.1 Accompanying document: Document accompanying a medical device and containing information for those accountable for the installation, use and maintenance of the medical device, the operator or the user, particularly regarding safety

3.2 Harm: Physical injury or damage to the health of people, or damage to property or the environment

3.3 Hazard: Potential source of harm

3.4 Hazardous situation: Circumstance in which people, property, or the environment are exposed to one or more hazard(s)

3.5 Intended use & Intended purpose: Use for which a product, process or service is intended according to the specifications, instructions and information provided by the manufacturer

3.6 Life-cycle: All phases in the life of a medical device, from the initial conception to final decommissioning and disposal

3.7 Manufacturers: natural or legal person with responsibility for the design, manufacture, packaging, or labelling of a medical device, assembling a system, or adapting a medical device before it is placed on the market or put into service, regardless of whether these operations are carried out by that person or on that person's behalf by a third party

3.8 Medical device: Any instrument, apparatus, implement, machine, appliance, implant, in vitro reagent or calibrator, software, material or other similar or related article, intended by the manufacturer to be used, alone or in combination, for human beings for one or more of the specific purpose(s) of

- diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of disease,

- diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, alleviation of or compensation for an injury,

- investigation, replacement, modification, or support of the anatomy or of a physiological process,

- supporting or sustaining life,

- control of conception,

- disinfection of medical devices,

- providing information for medical purposes by means of in vitro examination of specimens derived from the human body, and which does not achieve its primary intended action in or on the human body by pharmacological, immunological or metabolic means, but which may be assisted in its function by such means

- aids for disabled/handicapped people,

- devices for the treatment/diagnosis of diseases and injuries in animals,

- accessories for medical devices (see Note 3),

- disinfection substances,

- devices incorporating animal and human tissues which can meet the requirements of the above definition but are subject to different controls.

3.9 Objective evidence: Data supporting the existence or verity of something

3.10 Post-production: Part of the life-cycle of the product after the design has been completed and the medical device has been manufactured

3.11 Procedure: Specified way to carry out an activity or a process

3.12 Process: Set of interrelated or interacting activities which transforms inputs into outputs

3.13 Record: Document stating results achieved or providing evidence of activities performed

3.14 Residual risk: Risk remaining after risk control measures has been taken

3.15 Risk: Combination of the probability of occurrence of harm and the severity of that harm

3.16 Risk analysis: Systematic use of available information to identify hazards and to estimate the risk

3.17 Risk assessment: Overall process comprising a risk analysis and a risk evaluation

3.18 Risk control: Process in which decisions are made and measures implemented by which risks are reduced to, or maintained within, specified levels

3.19 Risk estimation: Process used to assign values to the probability of occurrence of harm and the severity of that harm

3.20 Risk evaluation: Process of comparing the estimated risk against given risk criteria to determine the acceptability of the risk

3.21 Risk management: Systematic application of management policies, procedures and practices to the tasks of analyzing, evaluating, controlling and monitoring risk

3.22 Risk management file: Set of records and other documents that are produced by risk management

3.23 Safety: Freedom from unacceptable risk

3.24 Severity: Measure of the possible consequences of a hazard

3.25 Top management: Person or group of people who direct(s) and control(s) a manufacturer at the highest level

3.26 Use error: Act or omission of an act that results in a different medical device response than intended by the manufacturer or expected by the user

3.27 Verification: Confirmation, through the provision of objective evidence, that specified requirements have been fulfilled

3.28 Biocompatibility: Nature that a raw material to use appropriately fits biological organization of the human body

4.0 Description of Device

4.1 Intended Use of Device

It also includes software and devices that convert medical images to digital and store and transmit images using computerized radiography (CR) and digital radiography (DR) devices.

4.2 Device Description

This technical construction file consists of documentation relating to product, Solid state X-ray Imager, which meet the requirements of the checklists and which are requested to bear the CE mark to enable them to move freely within the European Community and to put into service in accordance with its intended purposes.

4.3 Product Specifications

4.1.1 Category & Class

Trade Name

(Model Name)

HAD1717MG

HAD1717MC

Class

Class Ⅱa

Manufactured by

H&abyz Co.,Ltd.

*Product specifications are described in more detail in the TCF-001.

5.0 Life Cycle Application of Risk Management

5.1 This management plan applies the entire life cycle of the product, which includes Design Plan, Design & Development, Design Verification, Design Validation, Purchase, Production, Inspection, Packing & Shipping and after sales service.

The figure below illustrates the flow of the cycle.

5.2 The activities required to be carried during each stage of the life cycle of the product are as follows;

Design & Development Plan:

During Design & Development step, the state of reported customer complaints and after sales services shall be examined to analyze risk factors. For the entire risk factors identified, the level of risks in normal and abnormal operating conditions shall be evaluated. The company shall determine whether the occurrence possibility of the identified risks has been reduced after evaluation and the result shall be used as design input factors. The entire process of Design & Development Plan step shall be carried out and reviewed the head of R&D, the quality manager and development personnel and, if necessary, medical specialists shall participate in the process.

Design & Development:

The design and development inputs include the intended use, functional and efficient safety, and control requirements. The previous lists of the expected risk factors can be derived by checking the related criteria and surveillance database, and the product inspection report. The risk factors have to be available as a strategy for risk management (i.e., the results of risk management) in the design and development step.

Design Verification:

Objective evidences of the fact that the introduction and effectiveness verification of the risk management strategy, and the final results pertaining to the detected risks, meet the acceptable criteria must be drawn up.

Design Validation:

The company shall determine whether the medical device meets the user’s requirements and its intended use and overall residual risks comply with the entire acceptance criteria. In order to achieve high reliability, it is necessary to conduct simulation tests that perform enough number of operations covering the entire cases of intended use.

Purchase:

The company shall establish procedures for preventing and controlling harms that may occur during the purchase of raw materials. In order to prevent wrong use of raw materials, the company shall perform regular inspection of important raw materials, ensure that the raw materials approved at the time when the production of the medical device was permitted are supplied in a stable and continuous manner and, finally, any risk factors that may occur during purchase process are reflected in the risk management.

Production:

The company shall determine the suitability, cleaning process, maintenance and calibration cycle of production, measuring and monitoring equipment, considering the risks related to process. The production environment and workers shall be controlled by the risk management methods, documented and evaluated regularly. The validation of the production process is affected by the result of risk management measures and carried out using such risk management methods as FMEA.

Inspection:

The company shall determine the suitability, maintenance and calibration cycle of measuring devices used for the inspection of raw materials and finished products in reference to the equipment and inspection process. The company shall perform inspections in accordance with Q.C. process chart and quality management plan and ensure that the risks identified during inspection are reflected in the risk management.

Packing & Shipping:

The company shall identify the risks that affect product’s quality during the packing and shipping steps and the degree to which products are damaged during shipping or shipping workers are injured. The result shall be reflected in the process to analyze the harm.

Post-Production Step:

The company shall collect information related to customer feedback including customer complaints and after sales service requests after products are delivered to customers in accordance with relevant procedures specified in the quality management system. In addition, the risk analysis shall be carried out again using the information acquired after sales and the risk management report shall be reviewed and revised, if necessary.

Monitoring:

The company shall monitor risk related matters during the entire steps of product life cycle and perform statistical analyses using the information obtained from monitoring

6.0 Assignment of responsibility and authority

6.1 A separate organization is not specially made to implement risk management procedure. Every staff in charge of the works that may have effect on product quality shall keep working on risk management by observing the documented quality management system containing Risk Management Procedure and each product based quality plan.

6.2 The risk management shall be performed in each department and sector by the personnel presented bellow chart.

Position

Responsibility

Qualification

Development Team

-Responsibility for overall risk management activites

-Approval of risk management plan and risk management report

Risk management Training completed

Quality Management Team

-Identification of hazards in the development sector, risk assessment, risk assessment, risk control measures, residual risk assessment

-Creating a risk management plan and risk management report

-Investigate and collect standards for product and risk management

Quality manager Training completed

Production Team

-Identification of hazards in production

-Identify the risk factors of materials

-Creating a risk management plan and risk management report

Over 1 year experience of manufacturing

Sales Team

-Identify predictable hazards in the market

-Customer complaints and corrective actions

-Reporting of risk cases after production

-Creating a risk management plan and risk management report

Over 1 year experience of sales or customer complaints

6.3 Responsibilities and roles of personnel performing Risk Management Activity show the following table.

Step

Descriptions on each step

Responsibility

Risk planning

Pre-planning risk activities and standards set up for risk acceptability

Development Team

Risk analysis

Intended use and identification of characteristics related to the safety of the medical device

Development Team

Identification of identified or foreseeable hazards

Estimation of the risks for each hazardous situation

Risk evaluation

Evaluation results and conclusions on recognized risks

Development Team

Risk control

Risk control option analysis and implementation of risk control measure

Development Team

Residual risk evaluation after implementation of risk control measure

Risk/benefit analysis

Risks arising from risk control measure

Completion of risk control

Evaluation of overall residual risk acceptability

Decide whether overall residual risks are acceptable or not

Development Team

Risk management report

Establishment of risk management report

Development Team

Production and

Post-production information

Production and post-production information gathering and review

Quality Management Representative

7.0 Requirements for Risk Management Activity Review

The requirements of risk management review, which shall be performed at each step of product life cycle in relation to risk management activity, are presented below table;

No

Step

Review Requirements

1

Design &

Development Plan

Based on objective data, such as scientific data, field data and clinical data about similar or same products. Risks that may occur at the design and development plan step shall be identified. The entire process of design & development plan shall be carried out and reviewed the head of R&D, the quality manager and development personnel

2

Design &

Development

The design & development inputs include the intended use, functional and efficient safety and requirements. Identifying the risk states based on objective data. Reduction of risks due to design change.

The design & development outputs include the requirements of product, purchase, production, distribution, service and characteristic of product

3

Design Verification

The introduction and effectiveness verification of risk management means. The final results meet the acceptable criteria must be defined.

4

Design Validation

The company shall determine whether the product meets the user’s requirements and its intended use and overall residual risks comply with the entire acceptance criteria.

5

Purchase

In order to achieve requirements, the company shall establish procedures of purchase.

Any risk factors that may occur during purchase are reflected in the risk management.

The company shall verify the biocompatibility of the raw materials when purchasing them.

6

Production

The company shall identify and reduce the risks that may occur during production.

The company shall determine the suitability, cleaning process, maintenance and calibration cycle of production, measuring and monitoring equipment, considering the risks related to process. The production environment and workers shall be controlled by the risk management methods, documented and evaluated regularly.

7

Inspection

The company shall perform inspections in accordance with Q.C process chart and quality management plan and ensure that the risks identified during inspection are reflected in the risk management.

8

Packing & Shipping

The company shall identify and evaluate the risks occurring to the personnel who pack or transport the product.

9

Post-Production Step

The company shall collect information related to customer feedback including customer complaints and after sales service requests after products are delivered to customers in accordance with relevant procedures specified in the quality management system

The company shall evaluate procedures related to production

10

Monitoring

The company shall monitor risk related matters during the entire steps of product life cycle and perform statistical analyses using the information obtained from monitoring.

The company shall identify the new risks through CAPA and execute corrective action

8.0 Risk Permission Criteria

8.1 Definition for Severity

The severity of harm consists of five stages;

Level

secerity

Definition

5

Imminent death

Is going to die soon

4

Serious

Life-threetening injuries

3

Critical

Occur injury or disability

2

Rare

Temporary disability or injury

1

Negligible

Discomfort or dissatisfaction

 8.2 Frequency

The frequency of harm consists of five stages;

Level

Possibility of Risk

Rating

5

Frequent

>1

4

Probable

10-2 to 1

3

Occasional

10-2 to 10-4

2

Improbable

10-4 to 10-6

1

Incredible

<10-6

8.3 Acceptability of risk

Frequent

(5)

5

10

15

20

25

Probable

(4)

4

8

12

16

20

Occasional

(3)

3

6

9

12

15

Improbable

(2)

2

4

6

8

10

Incredible

(1)

1

2

3

4

5

Negligible

(1)

Rare

(2)

Critical

(3)

Serious

(4)

Imminent death (5)

8.4 We can classify the risk as 2 categories

1. Broadly acceptable – Green Zone : Accept

2. Intolerable –Red Zone : N/Accept

8.5 If residual risks remain in Red Zone after taking risk control measures, the residual risks shall be compared with the benefits of the medical device.

8.6 If the residual risks are not permissible, a benefit analysis shall be conducted to determine whether to accept them.

9.0 Verification Activities

9.1 For any risks identified through the process of risk identification and risk evaluation, the company shall implement risk control measures and perform the verification activities of such risk control measures.

9.2 This company shall verify whether the risks have been reduced by applying planned risk control measures. The risk verification shall be carried out in accordance with following steps.

Step

Description of each step

Reference

Results

Director

Risk Plan

Establishing plans before performing risk activities and risk acceptance criteria

EN ISO14971:2012

Clinical Information

Customer Complaints

Risk Management Plan

Development Department Manager

Risk

Analysis

Intended Use and Identification of Characteristics related to the Safety of the Medical Device, Risk estimation

EN ISO14971:2012

Risk Management Report

Development Department Manager

Risk

Evaluation

Determining if risk reduction measures are required for each identified harm.

EN ISO14971:2012

Risk Management Report

Development Department Manager

Risk

Control

Risk control measures & Residual risk evaluation

EN ISO14971:2012

Quality Management Plan

Risk Management Report

Evaluation utilized as a risk control measure

- Process

Validation Report

- Test Report

Development Department Manager

Benefit Analysis

Determining whether to accept residual risks after comparing the residual risks with medical benefits.

EN ISO14971:2012

Risk Management Report

Development Department Manager

Evaluation of overall residual risk acceptability

Determining if the overall residual risks are permissible after all the risk control measures are implemented and verified.

EN ISO14971:2012

Risk Management Report

Development Department Manager

Production and post-production information

Collecting information from users or sales agencies

New or modified standards.

Feed Back Procedure

Evaluation Report

A/S Analysis Table

Quality

Management

Representative

10.0 How to obtain post-production information

10.1 Plan

(1) The company shall gather post-production information in accordance with established quality management system procedures from various sources including after sales service log, customer complaints and side effects reports.

(2) In addition, sales personnel shall conduct customer satisfaction surveys to obtain post-production information. The collected information shall be utilized for the process to improve product’s quality and reduce risks and, if necessary, risk process shall be applied again so that it is reflected in risk management report.

10.2 Analysis of customer satisfaction and requirements

(1) Personnel in charge of marketing and sales shall survey and document customer complaints and opinions about the product in accordance with Article 4.2 Customer Satisfaction Survey and Report of Customer Satisfaction Procedures

(2) Personnel in charge of marketing and sales shall handle the request for after-sales services after receiving customer complaints and record them in the after-sales receipt as specified in Article 4.1 of Customer Satisfaction Procedures

10.3 Inspection and internal audit

(1) The head of quality department shall conduct an internal audit once per year in accordance with Internal Audit Procedures and reflect any new risks identified through internal audits in risk management.

(2) The head of inspection department shall conduct inspection in accordance with Inspection & Testing Management Procedures and reflect any new risks identified through the inspection in risk management.

10.4 Checking similar medical devices in market and recall state

(1) The head of quality management department shall examine the information of similar medical devices newly introduced in market by visiting the following websites in a regular manner and ensure that the acquired information is reflected in this company’s product and utilized for risk management.

① Korea's Medical Device Information - MFDS http://www.mfds.go.kr

② Europe's Medical Device Information - MHRA http://www.mhra.gov.uk

③ America's Medical Device Information - FDA http://www.fda.gov
