queueId: ingest-1781569954414-12nt
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/02_ADD (HAD1417MCW)/▶ CE MDD/■ 1. 2차 CE 인허가/Attachment 10. Clinical Evaluation/Attachment 10-7 Post Market Clinical Follow Up/Post Market Clinical Follow Up Plan (A-PMCF-001).docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/eb958d4825ce/Post Market Clinical Follow Up Plan (A-PMCF-001)__eb958d4825ce_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 4a29409e75e1
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 1376

SOURCE_TEXT
Post Market Clinical Follow-Up Plan

According to MEDDEV 2.12/2

Product Name

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model Name

ADD

File No.

A-PMCF-001 (Rev.1)

Dept. / Title

Name

Date

Signature

Prepared

R&D team

Jung, Woosuk

APR/02/2021

Review

R&D Manager

Lee, Dong jin

APR/02/2021

Approval

Quality Manager

Hur Namkyu

APR/02/2021

No.

Revision history

Approved by

Date

0

First prepared

Hur Namkyu

Jan/28/2021

1

Revise the product name

Hur Namkyu

APR/02/202

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

Statement of Confidentiality

The information contained in this Post Market Clinical Follow-Up Plan is intended for authorized competent authorities and notified bodies of the manufacturer H&abyz Co.,Ltd. It must not be disclosed to third parties without written permission to be given by H&abyz Co.,Ltd. This plan is in compliance with the Helsinki convention.

Contents

1. Introduction 4

2. Manufacturer contact details 5

3. Medical Device description and specification 6

4. Activities related to PMCF: general and specific methods and procedures 8

5. Reference to the relevant parts of the technical documentation 11

6. Evaluation of clinical data relating to equivalent or similar devices 12

Introduction

1.1. Objective

The objective is to confirm clinical performance and safety throughout the expected lifetime of the medical device, the acceptability of identified risks and to detect emerging risks on the basis of factual evidence.

The documented, proactive, organized methods and procedures set up by the manufacturer to collect clinical data based on the use of a CE-marked device corresponding to a particular design dossier or on the use of a group of medical devices belonging to the same subcategory or generic device group as defined in Directive 93/42/EEC as amended by 2007/47/EC.

The aim of the PMCF plan is:

· confirming the safety and performance, including the clinical benefit if applicable, of the device throughout its expected lifetime;

· identifying previously unknown side-effects and monitor the identified side-effects and contraindications;

· identifying and analysing emergent risks on the basis of factual evidence;

· identifying possible systematic misuse or off-label use of the device, with a view to verifying that the intended purpose is correct.

1.2. Scope

Collection of the clinical data of ADD in the market after CE marking is acquired. If a serious accident is reported on our product, ADD, we plan to collect clinical data in accordance with this PMCF Plan later.

1.3. This report is made in accordance with the requirements

1) MDD 93/42/EEC as amended by 2007/47/EC, Annex X CLINICAL EVALUATION

2) MEDDEV 2.12/2 rev.2 POST MARKET CLINICAL FOLLOW-UP STUDIES

3) MEDDEV 2.7.1 & 2.7.2 Rev.3 Guidelines on Medical Devices (Clinical Evaluation)

4) MEDDEV 2.12-1 Rev.8 Guidelines on Medical Devices (Vigilance system)

5) EN ISO 14971[2012] Medical devices – Application of risk management to medical devices

6) MDCG 2020-7 Post-market clinical follow-up (PMCF) Plan Template - A guide for manufacturers and notified bodies

Manufacturer contact details

- Manufacturer contact details

Name

H&abyz Co.,Ltd

Address

1F, 2-dong, 41-16, cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-myeon, Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea

Tel

+82-70-4658-9300

Fax

+82-31-322-9390

URL

www.abyzr.com

- EU Representative

Name

JaviTech e.K.

Address

Sachsenhausener Straße 16, 65824 Schwalbach am Taunus, Germany

Tel

+49 6196 4021549

E-mail

fo@javitech.de

Medical Device description and specification

Product name

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model name

ADD

General description of the device

The ADD are wired or wireless digital flat panel detectors that have been designed for faster, more streamlined approach to digital radiography systems. The ADD detector utilize a combination of propriety TFT glass and scintillators(CsI), and those and electronics are housed in one package. The detectors support an auto exposure detection technology that allows the detectors to be used without generator integration.

The flat panel sensors of the ADD are fabricated using thin film technology based on amorphous silicon technology. Electronically, the sensors are much like conventional photodiode arrays. Each pixel in the array consists of a light‐sensing photodiode and a switching Thin Film Transistor (TFT) in the same electronic circuit. Amorphous silicon photodiodes are sensitive to visible light, with a response curve roughly comparable to human vision. The sensitivity of amorphous silicon photodiodes peaks in green wavelengths, well matched to scintillators such as CsI. The response has the excellent linearity of a charge‐integrating-biased photodiode.

Intended use

ADD(Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector), Digital Flat Panel X-Ray Detector is indicated for digital imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic systems and provide more precise case diagnosis for physicians and radiologists. Not to be used for mammography.

Intended Population

Adult and children except infant and pregnant women

Contra indications

Local regulations should be reviewed before using those who have limitations in X-rays due to health issues. Make sure to check the conditions of X-ray irradiation in advance.

Not to be used for mammography and direct cardiac application.

Not to be used for infant and pregnant women.

Target disease

ICD-10 Code: R00-R99

Abnormal findings on diagnostic imaging and in function studies, without diagnosis

Product class

Class IIa by Rule 16 of Annex IX, MDD 93/42/EEC as amended by Directive 2007/47/EEC

Activities related to PMCF: general and specific methods and procedures

In this section it is expected to describe the different activities that will be conducted in post-market, including general and specific methods / procedures to conduct in relation to the product covered by the scope of PMCF, also the aim of each activity described and the rational for the appropriateness of the chosen general and specific methods to achieve those objectives as well as the known limitations of the planned activities such as for example

incomplete follow up, missing data and so on. The timelines of those activities shall be also defined quarterly or at least yearly.

Here are some examples of different activities related to PMCF:

• A manufacturer device registry (specific for the type of device or the group of the medical devices the product belongs to) can be indicated together with a description and a summary of the plan. A pre-specification of what quality and quantity data – based on the risk of the device(s) and the associated accessories – to be collected and analysed shall be included. Any possible evaluation of suitable national public registries with clinical data on the manufacturer’s own device and/or on similar devices could be specified in this section, identifying the expected quantity and quality of data to be gathered and the search protocols to be adopted.

• PMCF studies planned could be indicated in this section, together with a summary of the plan including the design, sample size, the endpoints, the inclusion/exclusion criteria (e.g. extended follow up of patients included in the pre-market clinical investigations, new clinical investigations within the intended use, retrospective studies). In case of implantable devices and class III devices where clinical investigations have not been performed pursuant to Article 61 (4), the PMCF plan shall include post market studies to confirm the safety and performance of the device.

• Planned Real-world evidence (RWE) analyses could be indicated in this section, together with a summary of the plan including the design, sample size, the endpoints, and analysis population. The real-world data (RWD) from which these analyses are based on should be of sufficient quality and come from reliable data sources.

• Surveys planned to collect information about the use of the concerned medical device could be described.

We plan to collect clinical data of post-market with PMCF activities through device registry and survey in the event of a serious accident on our product.

4.1 Necessity of PMCF activities

We will define where the need of conducting the PMCF activity is coming from from (requested by notified body, clinical evaluation report, PMS, risk management report, previous PMCF report, etc…)

4.2 Description of activities

We will provide the description of activity and if it is general of specific procedure/method.

4.3 Aims of activities

We will define the aim of this PMCF activity.

- confirming the safety of the medical device

 - confirming the performance of the medical device

 - identifying previously unknown side-effects (related to the procedures or to the medical devices).

 - monitoring the identified side-effects and contraindications

 - identifying and analysing emergent risks

 - ensuring the continued acceptability of the benefit-risk ratio

 - identifying possible systematic misuse or off-label use of the device

4.4 Rationale for the methods/procedures

We will describe the rationale for the appropriateness of the chosen methods/ procedure, including

- the justification for sample size, timescales and endpoints

 - justification for comparator, on the basis of intended purpose and state of the art

 - justification of the study design on the basis of all of the above, and why it is sufficient to ensure representative patient populations and provide for adequate controls on sources of bias (an evaluation of the potential sources of bias should form part of this)

 - a statistical justification for the expected quality of outcomes, and justification for why this is satisfactory in light of the residual risks. This is an important consideration. For example, retrospective surveys with no justification other than “this should demonstrate the expected quality of evidence that we require,” but without showing a statistical rationale, are not acceptable.

4.5 Timelines of the activities

We will provide the timelines of the activity. A detailed and adequately justified time schedule for PMCF activities. We will conduct the PMCF activity since the accident of our product is reported,

Summary table of the different PMCF activities foreseen by the manufacturer is provided below:

Number of activity

Description of activity

Aim of the activity

Rationale and known

limitations of the activity

Timelines of the activity

Reference to the relevant parts of the technical documentation

In this section the manufacturer is required to include references to the relevant information from the clinical evaluation report and from the risk management file, which need to be analysed, followed up, and evaluated in this plan.

As an alternative, the manufacturer is required to state that there is no relevant information from the clinical evaluation report and/or from the risk management file to be considered in this plan.

Clinical Evaluation Report (date and version)

Relevant information to be further analysed and monitored

- Clinical Evaluation Report (Doc.No. A-TCF-5-060 rev.1, 27.01.20

Risk Management File (date and version)

Relevant information to be further analysed and monitored:

- Risk Management Plan (Doc.No. A-TCF-5-036 rev.0, 10.04.2020)

- Risk Management Report (Doc.No. A-TCF-5-037 rev.0, 15.06.2020)

- FMEA Table (Doc.No. A-TCF-5-038 rev.0, 15.06.2020)

Evaluation of clinical data relating to equivalent or similar devices

H&abyz Co.,Ltd. shall gather in this section information regarding equivalent / similar devices for which clinical data will be further evaluated and presented in the PMCF report.

Please note that PMCF data intended to demonstrate continuing safety and performance should be sourced from the device under evaluation.

Data from equivalent or similar devices may be used, for example to update the information relating to the state of the art, to identify and further assess relevant safety outcomes etc.

The selected devices shall be consistent throughout the technical documentation. Indicate whether the selected device is demonstrated to be equivalent or is a similar device. For each device listed, a clear reference to the pertinent parts of the CER can be made.

The evidence to prove equivalence or similarity to a device is done through 3 aspects:

Technical

Clinical

Biological

Products equivalent or similar to your device should already be listed in the Technical File or CER. So, include only the ones that you already discussed about in these documents.

The following items of each equivalent and/or similar devices would be at least provided, in a table format:

Product name of equivalent / similar device

Intended purpose

Intended users

Intended patient population

Medical condition

Indication

Reference to clinical data evaluation in the CER (date, version and location in the text)

Estimated date of the PMCF evaluation report

We will conduct Post Market Clinical Follow Up evaluation yearly ever since the serious adverse events or accident of our product is reported.
