queueId: ingest-1781569954403-sgb
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/02_ADD (HAD1417MCW)/▶ CE MDD/■ 7. ADD(HAD1417MCW) Dimdi 등록관련 기술문서 제출 221104/Post Market Surveillance Report [Doc.No.A-PMS-004].docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/9d5462bda67a/Post Market Surveillance Report [Doc.No.A-PMS-004]__9d5462bda67a_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 81b0bda9833c
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: MFDS/domestic
pilotRank: 1377

SOURCE_TEXT
Post Market Surveillance Report

for

ADD

Abyz Digital Detector

Report No.: A-TCF-5-000 (Rev.1)

Dept. / Title

Name

Date

Signature

Prepared

Sales team

No, Jungmin

Jan/29/2021

Review

R&D Manager

Lee, Dong jin

Jan/29/2021

Approval

Quality Manager

Hur, Namkyu

Jan/29/2021

Revision History

No.

Description

Date

0

Initial Release

June/28/2020

1

Add to plan of FSN/FSCA

Jan/29/2021

2

1st update

Dec/07/2021

Table of Contents

1. Introduction 4

2. Device Information 4

3. Conducting PMS Activities 5

3.1. Literature Review 6

3.2 The Media 9

3.3 Experience with Similar Devices Made by the Same or Different Manufacturer 9

4. PMS Result 16

5. PMCF 18

Statement of Confidentiality

The information contained in this Post Market Surveillance Plan is intended for authorized competent authorities and notified bodies of the manufacturer H&abyz Co. Ltd. It must not be disclosed to third parties without written permission to be given by H&abyz Co. Ltd. This plan is in compliance with the Helsinki convention.

Introduction

This Post Market Surveillance (PMS) has been conducted in accordance with the PMS Plan (Doc. No. A-PMS-003). This report contains the results of all collected data and analyses conducted in support of the PMS Plan.

Device Information

Manufacture

H&abyz Co., Ltd.

1F, 2-dong, 41-16, cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-myeon, Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea

Product Name

Abyz Digital Detector

Model Name

ADD

Intended Use

ADD(Abyz Digital Detector), Digital Flat Panel X-Ray Detector is indicated for digital imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic systems and provide more precise case diagnosis and treatment planning on a real time basis for physicians and radiologists. Not to be used for mammography.

Classification

Class IIa by Rule 16 of Annex IX, MDD 93/42/EEC as amended by Directive 2007/47/EEC.

Conducting PMS Activities

It is determined at this stage whether the data collected in PMS activities can be applied to our devices. The PMS Annual Analysis activities were conducted based on the PMS Plan’s Chapter 5. Source of PMS Information. To collect data, we selected three sources from the PMS sources listed in 'NB-MED-2.12 / 1'.

1. Literature Reviews

2. The media

3. Experience with similar devices made by the same or different manufacturer

Literature Review

Regarding publications from scientific journals, further searches were performed. These searches focused on various aspects particularly relevant for the evaluation of the effectiveness and safety profile of ADD and on the identification and clinical evaluation of comparable medical devices, which are able to show substantial equivalence with the already marketed device.

Date of Search

2021.01.05 ~ 2021.11.30

Searcher

Han Hyun Uk

Period Covered by Search

From 2000 to 2019 years

Literature Source

PUBMED, European Radiology, Medical Physics

Keyword

Flat Panel X-Ray Detector, DRX-1, CXDI – 31, CXDI-70C, CXDI-11, Image Quality, Radiation Dose, Radiography, CR, Screen-Film Radiography

The search for potentially relevant studies was undertaken in Scientific Reports for all publications between 2000-2019. The following medical subject heading were used: ‘’. Several foreign-language publications are found, but only papers written in English were included.

Refer to Clinical Evaluation Report (Doc. No. A-TCF-5-060)

Data Selection Process

Potentially relevant literature identified through the search

64 literatures of which titles and abstracts were screened for relevance

Literature retrieved for more detailed assessment

8 literatures used for this clinical evaluation report.

The 48 literatures are excluded, for this reason:

- The full text is not available.

The 8 literatures are excluded for this reason:

- There is a newer or a more complete study about the same research.

- The literature is not related to Flat Panel Digital X-ray detector.

- Flat Panel Digital X-ray detector is not the main focus of the literature.

First Criterion:

Full Text Written in English

Second Criterion:

Relevance

Clinical Literature Data

No

Name of Literature

Author or Journal

Date of

publishing

Target Disease / Area

1

Optimization of direct digital chest radiography using Cu filtration

Ernest et al.

2014

Lung problems (Nodules)

2

Digital chest radiography with a large-area flat-panel silicon X-ray detector: Clinical comparison with conventional radiography

Hennigs et al.

2001

Chest

3

The Prevalence of Uncommon Fractures on Skeletal Surveys Performed to Evaluate for Suspected Abuse in 930 Children: Should Practice Guidelines Change?

Boaz et al.

2011

Bone (long bone, ribs, skull, clavicle and etc.) fractures

4

Experimental Evaluation of a Portable Indirect Flat-Panel Detector for the Pediatric Chest: Comparison with Storage Phosphor Radiography at Different Exposures by Using a Chest Phantom

Ulrike et al.

2005

Catheters and simulated nodules and subtle interstitial lung disease (miliary, reticular, linear, and ground-glass patterns)

5

Image Quality and Radiation Dose on Digital Chest Imaging: Comparison of Amorphous Silicon and Amorphous Selenium Flat-Panel Systems

Klaus et al.

2005

Chest

6

Analysis of Image Quality in Digital Chest Imaging

Hauwere et al.

2006

Chest

7

New Developed DR Detector Performs Radiographs of Hand, Pelvic and Premature Chest Anatomies at a Lower Radiation Dose and/or a Higher Image Quality

Helle Precht et al.

2013

Chest, pelvic, hand

8

Wireless digital radiography detectors in the emergency area: An efficacious solution

Garrido Blázquez et al.

2011

chest, thoracic spine, and lumbar spine

 3.2 The Media

We searched as keyword such as ‘Solid State X-Ray Imager’, ‘Digital Imager’, ‘Flat panel digital X-ray detector’, ‘digital detector’, ‘Flat panel detector’, ‘detector’, ‘X-ray detector’, ‘FPD’ in google and yahoo, it is not found applicable

 3.3 Experience with Similar Devices Made by the Same or Different Manufacturer

Nation

Search

Date

Korea

https://emed.mfds.go.kr/popup/#!CECAL01F010

2021.11.26

Europe

https://www.gov.uk/drug-device-alerts?keywords=holter+electrocardiograph&alert_type%5B%5D=devices&issued_date%5Bfrom%5D=&issued_date%5Bto%5D=

2021.11.26

USA

https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfMAUDE/results.cfm

2021.11.26

3.3.1 Korea

→ There is no adverse event or recall related to the Digital Flat Panel X-ray detector in the Korea

Conclusion - As a result of confirming the accident report of similar equipment, we have not encountered any case related to recall and accident report.

3.3.2 Europe

Conclusion - As a result of confirming the accident report of similar equipment, we have not encountered any case related to recall and accident report.

3.3.3 USA

- MAUDE Adverse Event Report

Conclusion - As a result of confirming the accident report of similar equipment, we have not encountered any case related to recall and accident report.

4. PMS Result

As a result of the post-2020.06 market research analysis, no additional measures such as product design change and process improvement are required. Therefore, follow-up (corrective and preventive measures) to the post-market research conducted this time are not carried out.

In the event of serious adverse events and an accident with our product, Field Safety Corrective Action will be implemented in accordance with MEDDEV 2.12 Post-Market Surveillance. We will issue a notice at the same time to all affected jurisdictions and to those responsible for the H&abyz or representative.

The FSCA notice shall include the following:

- Relevant parts from risk analysis

- Reasons and basic information for the FSCA, including analysis of possible hazards associated with the lack or defect of a device and associated with the continued use of the device

- Explanation and reason of corrective and preventive action

- Advice reported and taken by the user or distributor

- Device/ Serial/ Lot/ Batch number range

- Explain that if the lot and lot areas are taken, the other device will not be affected

- Certification of manufacturer and representative (address, contact)

H&abyz will include a copy of the Field Safety Notice (FSN) Notice submitted to the competent authority. It will proceed before and at the same time as the FSCA is started.

The FSN will be written in a language approved by the competent authority as follows:

a) For emergency FSN, a clear title based on the generic name of the product concerned, the type of FSCA-creation date and measures

b) Possible details of the device type, model name and number of the device ordered, relevant products such as batch/lot/serial number, etc.

c) The truth is that the lack and defect of a device, the definition of possible hazards associated with continued use of the device, the continued use of the device, the definition of possible risks associated with the patient or with the prior use of the device.

d) The advice of action taken by the user includes:

- Device verification and warranty period

- Reuse, disposable method or device changes

The FSCA and FSN form is according to Field safety corrective action – FSCA and Field safety notice template in MEDDEV 2.12 Post Market surveillance.

- https://www.medical-device-regulation.eu/meddev-guidance-list-download/

5. PMCF

Identify whether any of the following cases are found in the PMS activity results. If any of the following apply, PMCF is performed.

No.

Innovation case

A or N/A

Comment

1

Innovation (e.g. design of the device, materials, Substances, principles of operation, Technology or the medical indications are novel)

N/A

Our devices are not innovative devices and are similar to those on the market

2

significant changes to the products or to its intended use for which pre-market clinical evaluation and re-certification has been completed

N/A

No changes have been made to the intended use or critical design

3

high product related risk (e.g. based on design, materials, components, invasiveness, clinical procedures)

N/A

Our device is a product that pushes the limbs and helps the blood to circulate well

4

high risk anatomical locations

N/A

No high risk for anatomical location

5

high risk target populations (e.g. pediatrics, elderly)

N/A

Not targeted for high-risk target groups

6

severity of disease/treatment challenges

N/A

The severity of the risk does not increase during treatment

7

questions of ability to generalize clinical investigation results

N/A

No clinical events occur

8

unanswered questions of long-term safety and performance

N/A

No significant events occur

9

results from any previous clinical investigation, including adverse events or from post-market surveillance activities

N/A

No significant events occur

10

identification of previously unstudied subpopulations which may show different benefit/risk-ratio (e.g. hip implants in different ethnic populations)

N/A

No investigation is needed to identify groups for small groups that have not been previously studied

11

continued validation in cases of discrepancy between reasonable pre-market follow-up time scales and the expected life of the product

N/A

No validation of expected life of product is required

12

risks identified from the literature or other data sources for similar marketed devices

N/A

No risks identified from the literature or other data sources for similar marketed devices

13

interaction with other medical products or treatments

N/A

No interaction studies are required with surgical methods

14

verification of safety and performance of device when exposed to a larger and more varied population of clinical users

N/A

No additional performance and safety validation for patients

15

emergence of new information on safety or performance

N/A

No serious harmful case information was found

16

where CE marking was based on equivalence

N/A

No additional equivalence assessments are required for new CE products

But all the cases are not met to PMS activity data. So, the PMCF does not need to be performed.
