queueId: ingest-1781569954388-i44
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/02_ADD (HAD1417MCW)/▶ CE MDD/■ 8. ADD(HAD1417MCW) H&abyz 인증관련 자료  20220203 (CE Dimdi)/4. TCF/10. Clinical Evaluation/Attachment 10-3 Literature Search Report/Literature Search Report (Doc.No.A-TCF-5-064).docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/4e0528e5c4df/Literature Search Report (Doc.No.A-TCF-5-064)__4e0528e5c4df_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: ce33b153767f
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: general
pilotRank: 1385

SOURCE_TEXT
Literature Search Report

for

ADD

Abyz Digital Detector

Report No.: A-TCF-5-060 (Rev.0)

Dept. / Title

Name

Date

Signature

Prepared

R&D team

Kim Wan Su

Aug/26/2020

Review

R&D Manager

Lee, Dong jin

Aug/26/2020

Approval

Quality Manager

Hur Namkyu

Aug/26/2020

Table of Contents

1 Device Information 3

2 Scope of the Literature Search 3

3 Methods 3

4 Outputs 5

4.1 Literature Citation 5

4.2 Data Selection Process 6

5 Data Suitability Assessment 7

Device Information

Product Name

Abyz Digital Detector

Model Name

ADD

Intended Use

ADD(Abyz Digital Detector), Digital Flat Panel X-Ray Detector is indicated for digital imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic systems and provide more precise case diagnosis and treatment planning on a real time basis for physicians and radiologists. Not to be used for mammography.

Classification

Class IIa by Rule 10 of Annex IX, MDD 93/42/EEC as amended by Directive 2007/47/EEC.

Scope of the Literature Search

Regarding publications from scientific journals, further searches were performed. These searches focused on various aspects particularly relevant for the evaluation of the effectiveness and safety profile of ADD and on the identification and clinical evaluation of comparable medical devices, which are able to show substantial equivalence with the already marketed device.

Scope of the Literature Search

Digital Flat Panel X-ray detector

Type of Study relevant to the Objective of the Literature Review

Performance analysis

Safety analysis

Methods

Date of Search

2020.01.05~2020.06.15

Searcher

Han Hyun Uk

Period Covered by Search

From 2000 to 2019 years

Literature Source

PUBMED, European Radiology, Medical Physics

Keyword

Flat Panel X-Ray Detector, DRX-1, CXDI – 31, CXDI-70C, CXDI-11, Image Quality, Radiation Dose, Radiography, CR, Screen-Film Radiography

Selection Criteria

The literatures were analyzed considering the inclusion and exclusion criteria. At first, the application of selection criteria was limited to the literatures’ metadata (title, abstract, and keywords). The metadata of each literature were read by the searcher(s), who also considered the application of the inclusion and exclusion criteria. In addition, the selection criteria had regard to the content of the introduction and conclusion of the literatures.

Inclusion Criteria

The literatures addressing any of the topics listed below were included:

The literature is generated from the actual use of the equivalent devices (DRX-1, CXDI – 31, CXDI-70C, CXDI-11 and etc.).

The literature is related to Digital Flat Panel X-ray detector.

The literature addresses the usefulness of the Digital Flat Panel X-ray detector.

The literature addresses the safety of Digital Flat Panel X-ray detector.

The literature addresses the performance of Digital Flat Panel X-ray detector.

Exclusion Criteria

The literatures addressing any of the exclusion criteria listed below were excluded:

The literature is not related to Digital Flat Panel X-ray detector.

The literature doesn’t address the safety and performance of the Digital Flat Panel X-ray detector.

The Digital Flat Panel X-ray detector is not the main focus of the literature.

There is a newer or a more complete study about the same research.

The full text is not available.

Outputs

Literature Citation

Refer to Attachment for the literature citations retrieved from database search.

Data Selection Process

Potentially relevant literature identified through the search

64 literatures of which titles and abstracts were screened for relevance

Literature retrieved for more detailed assessment

8 literatures used for this clinical evaluation report.

The 48 literatures are excluded, for this reason:

- The full text is not available.

The 8 literatures are excluded for this reason:

- There is a newer or a more complete study about the same research.

- The literature is not related to Flat Panel Digital X-ray detector.

- Flat Panel Digital X-ray detector is not the main focus of the literature.

First Criterion:

Full Text Written in English

Second Criterion:

Relevance

Data Suitability Assessment

No.

Title

Author/Journal

Publish Year

Inclusion or Exclusion

Identification No.

Reason for

Inclusion or Exclusion

1

Image quality in two phosphor-based flat panel digital radiographic detectors

Samei

2003

Exclusion

-

This literature is evaluated using Varian Paxscan 2520, which has the significantly different imaging area.

2

Optimisation of direct digital chest radiography using Cu filtration

Ernest et al.

2014

Inclusion

Literature #1

The literature is generated from the actual use of the equivalent device, DRX-1.

3

Digital Detectors for General Radiography. A comparative technical report

Lawinshi et al.

2005

Exclusion

This literature is evaluated the performance of the Flat Panel X-Ray Detector using other scintillators.

4

New Developed DR Detector Performs Radiographs of Hand, Pelvic and Premature Chest Anatomies at a Lower Radiation Dose and/or a Higher Image Quality

Precht et al.

2013

Inclusion

Literature #7

This literature is evaluated the performance of Flat Panel X-Ray Detector.

5

Digital chest radiography with a large-area flat-panel silicon X-ray detector: Clinical comparison with conventional radiography

Hennigs et al.

2001

Inclusion

Literature #2

The literature is generated from the actual use of the equivalent device, CXDI-11.

6

Selenium-Based Digital Radiography Versus Conventional Film-Screen Radiography of the Hands and Feet: A Subjective Comparison

David et al.

1999

Exclusion

-

The literature addresses the direct radiography.

7

Computed radiography in musculoskeletal imaging: state of the art

Murphey et al.

1992

Exclusion

-

The literature addresses the computed radiography.

8

Image quality evaluation of a direct digital radiography detector operating in a UK radiology department

Stephen et al.

1999

Exclusion

-

The literature addresses the direct radiography.

9

Novel cassette-sized, flat-panel digital radiography (DR) system: Initial clinical and workflow results versus computed radiography (CR)

Lehnert et al.

2010

Exclusion

-

The literature doesn’t address the safety and performance of the Flat Panel Digital X-ray detector.

10

A comparison of digital radiography systems in terms of effective detective quantum efficiency

Marco et al.

2012

Exclusion

-

The Flat Panel Digital X-ray detector is not the main focus of the literature.

11

Body packers on your examination table: How helpful are plain x-ray images? A definitive low-dose CT protocol as a diagnosis tool for body packers

Schulz et al.

2014

Exclusion

-

The Flat Panel Digital X-ray detector is not the main focus of the literature.

12

Wireless digital radiography detectors in the emergency area: An efficacious solution

Garrido et al.

2011

Inclusion

Literature #8

The literature is generated from the actual use of the equivalent device, DRX-1.

13

The Prevalence of Uncommon Fractures on Skeletal Surveys Performed to Evaluate for Suspected Abuse in 930 Children: Should Practice Guidelines Change?

Boaz et al.

2011

Inclusion

Literature #3

The literature is generated from the actual use of the equivalent device, CXDI-31.

14

Experimental Evaluation of a Portable Indirect Flat-Panel Detector for the Pediatric Chest: Comparison with Storage Phosphor Radiography at Different Exposures by Using a Chest Phantom

Ulrike et al.

2005

Inclusion

Literature #4

The literature is related to Flat Panel Digital X-ray detector.

15

Image Quality and Radiation Dose on Digital Chest Imaging: Comparison of Amorphous Silicon and Amorphous Selenium Flat-Panel Systems

Klaus et al.

2005

Inclusion

Literature #5

The literature is related to Flat Panel Digital X-ray detector.

16

Analysis of Image Quality in Digital Chest Imaging

Hauwere et al.

2006

Inclusion

Literature #6

The literature is related to Flat Panel Digital X-ray detector.

Appendix II

Literature #1 Optimization of direct digital chest radiography using Cu filtration

Literature #2 Digital chest radiography with a large-area flat-panel silicon X-ray detector: Clinical comparison with conventional radiography

Literature #3 The Prevalence of Uncommon Fractures on Skeletal Surveys Performed to Evaluate for Suspected Abuse in 930 Children: Should Practice Guidelines Change?

Literature #4 Experimental Evaluation of a Portable Indirect Flat-Panel Detector for the Pediatric Chest: Comparison with Storage Phosphor Radiography at Different Exposures by Using a Chest Phantom

Literature #5 Image Quality and Radiation Dose on Digital Chest Imaging: Comparison of Amorphous Silicon and Amorphous Selenium Flat-Panel Systems

Literature #6 Analysis of Image Quality in Digital Chest Imaging

Literature #7 New Developed DR Detector Performs Radiographs of Hand, Pelvic and Premature Chest Anatomies at a Lower Radiation Dose and/or a Higher Image Quality

Literature #8 Wireless digital radiography detectors in the emergency area: An efficacious solution
