queueId: ingest-1781569954406-vdi
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/04_2G & 3G (A1417MCW, A1717MCW, F1417MCW)/▶ CE MDR/230706 ★ 1차 제출/A-TCF-5-157 Clinical Evaluation/A-TCF-5-117 Clinical Evaluation Plan.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/b4063ac9e503/A-TCF-5-117 Clinical Evaluation Plan__b4063ac9e503_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 881dce450d6e
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 1434

SOURCE_TEXT
Clinical Evaluation Plan

for Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Product name: Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model name: A1717MCW / A1417MCW / F1417MCW

Name

Position

Date

Signature

Prepared by

Han, Jimin

Quality team

December 01, 2022

Reviewed by

Lee, Dongjin

R&D manager

December 01,

2022

Approved by

Hur, Namkyu

Quality manager

December 01,

2022

Revision History

Revision No.

Rev. Date

Revision Description

0

December 01, 2022

Initial release

Table of Contents

1. Introduction 4

2. Description of the device 5

3. Identification of General Safety and Performance Requirements 13

4. Intended clinical benefits 14

5. Methods for examination of qualitative and quantitative aspects 15

6. Indicative list and specification of parameters 16

7. Acceptability of the benefit-risk ratio 18

8. Specific components related to benefit-risk issues 18

9. Clinical development plan 19

10. Date of the next clinical evaluation 19

Introduction

1.1 General

This clinical evaluation plan is documented according to the Part A of Annex XIV of Regulation (EU) 2017/745. The clinical evaluation shall be thorough and objective, and take into account both favourable and unfavourable data. Its depth and extent shall be proportionate and appropriate to the nature, classification, intended purpose and risks of the device in question, as well as to the manufacturer’s claims in respect of the device.

Related references

Regulation (EU) 2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2017

Demonstration of equivalence

A clinical evaluation may be based on clinical data relating to a device for which equivalence to the device in question can be demonstrated. The following technical, biological and clinical characteristics shall be taken into consideration for the demonstration of equivalence:

— Technical: the device is of similar design; is used under similar conditions of use; has similar specifications and properties including physicochemical properties such as intensity of energy, tensile strength, viscosity, surface characteristics, wavelength and software algorithms; uses similar deployment methods, where relevant; has similar principles of operation and critical performance requirements;

— Biological: the device uses the same materials or substances in contact with the same human tissues or body fluids for a similar kind and duration of contact and similar release characteristics of substances, including degradation products and leachables;

— Clinical: the device is used for the same clinical condition or purpose, including similar severity and stage of disease, at the same site in the body, in a similar population, including as regards age, anatomy and physiology; has the same kind of user; has similar relevant critical performance in view of the expected clinical effect for a specific intended purpose.

The characteristics listed above shall be similar to the extent that there would be no clinically significant difference in the safety and clinical performance of the device. Considerations of equivalence shall be based on proper scientific justification. It shall be clearly demonstrated that manufacturers have sufficient levels of access to the data relating to devices with which they are claiming equivalence in order to justify their claims of equivalence.

Documentation of clinical evaluation

The results of the clinical evaluation and the clinical evidence on which it is based shall be documented in a clinical evaluation report which shall support the assessment of the conformity of the device.

The clinical evidence together with non-clinical data generated from non-clinical testing methods and other relevant documentation shall allow the manufacturer to demonstrate conformity with the general safety and performance requirements and shall be part of the technical documentation for the device in question.

Both favourable and unfavourable data considered in the clinical evaluation shall be included in the technical documentation.

Description of the device

Description

Product name

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model name

A1717MCW / A1417MCW / F1417MCW

Intended purpose

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector (model: A1717MCW / A1417MCW / F1417MCW) is indicated for digital imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic systems and provide more precise case diagnosis for physicians and radiologists. Not to be used for mammography.

Intended target groups

Adult and children except infant and pregnant women.

Indications

It is intended to replace film-based radiographic diagnostic systems and provide more precise case diagnoses for physicians and radiologists.

Contra-indications

Local regulations should be reviewed before using to the pregnant or those who have limitations in X-rays due to health issues. Make sure to check the conditions of X-ray irradiation in advance.

Not to be used for mammography and direct cardiac application.

Not to be used for infant and pregnant women.

Component

Detector

 A1717MCW A1417MCW F1417MCW

No

Component

Function

1

Detection area

Connect the detector and the power supply

2

Detector cable connector

Supply or remove power

3

LED

Indicate the power supply status (written as ‘Power’), the operating status (written as ‘Busy’) and the status of wired and wireless network communications (written as ‘Link’)

4

Power on/off button

Power On/Off button

5

Wi-Fi Antenna

Antenna for wireless connection

No

Component

Function

1

Power on/off button

Power On/Off button

2

Power status indicator

Power On: LED on

Remaining battery status 26% ~ 100%: Green

Remaining battery status 6% ~ 25%: Yellow

Remaining battery status less than 5%: Red

Power Off: LED off

3

Process status indicator

Registered in the system and in the paring state: LED on

The Detector is selected for exposure: LED blinks

(The LED colors are green, yellow, magenta, blue, cyan.)

4

Link indicator

Wired mode:

 General: Green, periodically blinks

 H/W signal check: Green, aperiodically blinks

Wireless mode: The green LED is on

Power Supply Box

No

Component

Function

1

Equipotentiality Terminal

The terminal which, when connected together, bring various parts of a piece of equipment or of a system to the same potential.

2

Power Plug Connector

Connect the AC power cord and the power supply box

3

Fuse (T6.3AH/250V)

Block the current when overvoltage is loaded to AC input power

4

Power Switch

Turn on and off the AC input power

5

LAN Connector (RJ45)

Terminal for 1GB Ethernet communications between PC and the power supply box

6

Data Connector

Supply power and send and receive data

Battery

No

Component

Function

1

Battery Terminal

Connect the battery and the detector

Battery recharger

No

Component

Function

1

Charger Connector

Battery charger connector

2

Power Indicator

Indicate battery charging status

Green: Charging complete

Red: Charging

Red Blink: Error of charging

3

Battery Charging Terminal

Battery charging terminal

Accessories

No

Component

Photo

Description

1

Data Cable

Connect the detector and power supply Box.

2

LAN Cable

Connect PC and Power Supply Box. (15M)

3

LAN Cable

Connect PC and Power Supply Box. (3M)

4

AC Power Cord

Connect AC power and power supply Box.

5

Recharger Adapter

Connect the charger adapter and AC adapter cable and convert ac to dc voltage.

6

Recharger Adapter

AC Power Cord

Connect AC power and Recharger Adapter.

7

Switch Box

(Optional)

Connect the PC and the x-ray generator.

Transmit and receive detector operation signals, x-ray output, and input signals.

8

Exposure Switch

(Optional)

Generate exposure signals.

9

USB Cable

(Optional)

Connect PC and Switch Box.

10

Trigger Cable

(Optional)

Connect X-ray System and Switch Box.

Identification of General Safety and Performance Requirements

The general safety and performance requirements that require support from relevant clinical data are identified.

No.

General Safety and Performance Requirements

Relevant Clinical Data

CHAPTER I GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

1

Devices shall achieve the performance intended by their manufacturer and shall be designed and manufactured in such a way that, during normal conditions of use, they are suitable for their intended purpose. They shall be safe and effective and shall not compromise the clinical condition or the safety of patients, or the safety and health of users or, where applicable, other persons, provided that any risks which may be associated with their use constitute acceptable risks when weighed against the benefits to the patient and are compatible with a high level of protection of health and safety, taking into account the generally acknowledged state of the art.

Risk management file

Plan No. : A-TCF-5-103

Report No. : A-TCF-5-104

Software Validation Report

No. : A-TCF-5-131

Clinical Evaluation

Plan No. : A-TCF-5-117

Report No. : A-TCF-5-118

Usability Engineering Report

No. : A-TCF-5-108

5

In eliminating or reducing risks related to use error, the manufacturer shall:

(a) reduce as far as possible the risks related to the ergonomic features of the device and the environment in which the device is intended to be used (design for patient safety), and

(b) give consideration to the technical knowledge, experience, education, training and use environment, where applicable, and the medical and physical conditions of intended users (design for lay, professional, disabled or other users).

Risk management file

Plan No. : A-TCF-5-103

Report No. : A-TCF-5-104

Usability Engineering report: A-TCF-5-108

8

All known and foreseeable risks, and any undesirable side-effects, shall be minimised and be acceptable when weighed against the evaluated benefits to the patient and/or user arising from the achieved performance of the device during normal conditions of use.

Risk management file

Plan No. : A-TCF-5-103

Report No.: A-TCF-5-104

Clinical Evaluation

Plan No. : A-TCF-5-117

Report No. : A-TCF-5-118

Intended clinical benefits

The clinical evaluation is planned to consider these intended clinical benefits to patients with relevant and specified clinical outcome parameters.

In accordance with the article 2 (53) of MDR, clinical benefit means the positive impact of a device on the health of an individual, expressed in terms of a meaningful, measurable, patient-relevant clinical outcome(s), including outcome(s) related to diagnosis, or a positive impact on patient management or public health.

Intended clinical benefits with relevant and specified clinical outcome parameters

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector (model: A1717MCW / A1417MCW / F1417MCW) is indicated for digital imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic systems and provide more sensitive and faster case diagnosis for physicians and radiologists. Their sensitivity allows a lower dose of radiation for a given image quality than film.

The parameter to determine the benefit-risk ratio is the accuracy of the device and we will conduct clinical research to show if the accuracy of this device can PASS the standard and the guideline we use clinical trial guideline of X-ray detector, which complies with EN 62220-1-1:2015.

Several clinical data including relevant clinical outcome parameters from scientific publications will be listed in A-TCF-5-118 Clinical Evaluation Report.

Clinical benefit 1 – a significant reduction in patient dose in comparison with the film screen system. So when using the same dose with a corresponding film screen system, image quality is significantly better.

Relevant clinical outcome parameters

Detective Quantum Efficiency (DQE)

Modulation Transfer Function (MTF)

Linearity

Clinical benefit 2 – fast image acquisition time

Relevant clinical outcome parameters

Recovery time

Image confirmation time

Methods for examination of qualitative and quantitative aspects

We will investigate scientific literature, including clinical trial data and review articles, that have been identified through several already published internet resources. The “PUBMED” and “Science Direct” are going to utilize to search for literature and to identify any published scientific data and to retrieve relevant articles referenced in systematic literature reviews or scientific articles.

More detailed information about the searching literature method refers to “Literature study” (Doc. No. A-TCF-5-120)

Also, we additionally use clinical-related information from PMS to re-confirm whether the product has clinical benefits and residual risks.

Refer to “Periodic Safety Update Report” (Doc. No. A-PSUR-5-001)

Our products have been tested and proven conformance to IEC 60601-1, IEC 60601-1-2 and IEC 62220-1-1 for clinical safety.

Refer to “A-TCF-5-156 Test Reports”

Indicative list and specification of parameters

X-ray radiography is the most common medical imaging procedure. In the last two decades, digital radiography has emerged as a viable technology for acquiring x-ray images. Digital radiography offers a number of new capabilities such as post-processing, electronic archival, concurrent access to the images, and improved image distribution. The first of such technologies to become commercially stable was commuted Radiography (CR). More recently, advances in thin-film transistor technology have led to the development of solid-state flat-panel digital radiographic systems. At comparable resolution, these devices offer detective quantum efficiencies (DQEs) Higher than CR and analog scree-film systems.

Currently, there are two general types of flat-panel imaging detectors, direct and indirect, named for the mechanism of x-ray detection they utilize. The indirect flat-panel detectors, which are more common, use a layer of phosphor material that converts x-rays to visible photons. There are also two general types of indirect digital radiographic systems based on the phosphor screens that they employ. In one type, a structured phosphor screen is used as the scintillator, commonly in the form of crystalline CsI Grown in perpen-dicular structures. In the other type, the phosphor screen is turbid in nature with phosphor particles suspended in a layer of binding material. These kinds of indirect detectors often use rare-earth phosphor screens of the type used in screen-film radiography (e.g., Gd2O2S). In either type of detector, the visible photons are subsequently captured by a layer of photodiode pixel elements, where the energy of the light photons is converted to electronic charge. The charges are stored in the capacitors associated with individual pixels. After exposure, the stored charges are read electronically line by line via the panel’s gate and amplifier lines, and the image data are sent to a computer for immediate processing, display, storage, and/or transmission.

The introduction of flat-panel detectors in 2000 led to the development of fully digitalized x-ray systems. Due to their better dose quantum efficiency (DQE), dose reduction could be achieved as compared with conventional film–screen combinations. Further advantages were the instant availability of images and the avoidance of transport of the cassettes to the reading station. Today, digital imaging technology is realized in the majority of radiological departments, creating a filmless workflow. Technical advances and price reductions of hardware and storage media are the reasons why digital imaging now does not suffer from any disadvantages compared with conventional film-based imaging.

These proposed devices are the detectors with indirect energy conversion.

Clinical evaluation of Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector will be performed through periodic PMCF activities. This is based on PMS data, such as generally accepted state-of-the-art technology through literature reviews of similar medical devices and alternative therapies or devices on the market.

The specification of parameters of the Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector were determined by referring to the standards below.

Reference

Title of the standard

IEC 60601-1:2005/AMD1:2012

Medical electrical equipment - Part 1: General requirements for basic safety and essential performance

EN 60601-1-2:2015

/AMD1:2021

Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-2: General requirements for basic safety and essential performance - Collateral Standard: Electromagnetic disturbances - Requirements and tests

EN 62220-1-1:2015

Medical electrical equipment - Characteristics of digital x-ray imaging devices - Part 1-1: Determination of the detective quantum efficiency - Detectors used in radiographic imaging

EN 62304:2006

Medical device software - Software life-cycle processes (IEC 62304:2006)

EN ISO 14971:2019

Medical devices - Application of risk management to medical devices (ISO 14971:2019)

EN ISO 10993-1:2020

Biological evaluation of medical devices - Part 1: Evaluation and testing within a risk management process (ISO 10993-1:2018, including corrected version 2018-10)

EN ISO 10993-5:2009

Biological evaluation of medical devices - Part 5: Tests for in vitro cytotoxicity (ISO 10993-5:2009)

EN ISO 10993-10:2013

Biological evaluation of medical devices - Part 10: Tests for irritation and skin sensitization (ISO 10993-10:2010)

Acceptability of the benefit-risk ratio

After all risk control measures have been implemented and verified, the criteria defined in the risk management plan should be used to determine whether the overall residual risks posed by the medical device are acceptable.

See "EN ISO 14971:2019-Annex A.2.8" for guidance on the evaluation of overall residual risk.

The criteria are based on generally accepted state-of-the-art technology through literature reviews of similar medical devices and alternative therapies or devices on the market.

Unspecified risks and specific risks should be identified and collected, and benefit-risk analysis should be performed.

When benefit overweight overall residual risk including unspecific risks and specific risks, an overall residual risk is acceptable.

Of an overall residual risk that is judged acceptable, information to be included in the accompanying documents for disclose the overall residual risk shall be determined.

See "ISO/TR 24971:2020 - Annex D" for guidance on how to disclose residual risks.

Specific components related to benefit-risk issues

The Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector (model: A1717MCW / A1417MCW / F1417MCW) doesn’t have components which include pharmaceutical, non-viable animal or human tissues.

Clinical development plan

We will perform PMCF for the following purposes.

confirming the safety and performance, including the clinical benefit if applicable, of the device throughout its expected lifetime

identifying previously unknown side-effects and monitor the identified side-effects and contraindications

identifying and analysing emergent risks on the basis of factual evidence

ensuring the continued acceptability of the benefit-risk ratio, referred to in Section 1 and 9 of Annex I in the MDR

identifying possible systematic misuse or off-label use of the device, with a view to verifying that the intended purpose is correct

Exploratory investigations

Documents

Brief Summary

1

PMCF

A-PMCFP-5-001 PMCF Plan

The customer survey and screening of scientific literature and other clinical data is going to be conducted as PMCF activity.

Date of the next clinical evaluation

The frequency of updates for the clinical evaluation report is every two years.

When the clinical evaluation is updating, evaluator should consider the benefit/risk profile, undesirable side-effects and risk mitigation measures, the information materials supplied by the manufacturer, existing claims and new claim if applicable.
