queueId: ingest-1781569954417-15a4
sourcePath: raw/sources/DHF (인허가)/07_(CYAN) GT1717C, GT1717CP/91_인증 - 국내/02. G series + CYAN/3. 보완(제출)★/★보완제출문서/03 기술문서 심사에 관한 자료/03 제품의 성능 및 안전을 확인하기 위한 자료 (Rev)/04 성능에 관한 자료 (Rev)/1. 소프트웨어 적합성/1.3 [G series] Software Development Plan(A-TCF-10-143).pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/DHF (인허가)/_combined/0130756f6a58/1.3 [G series] Software Development Plan(A-TCF-10-143)__0130756f6a58_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 9196d8ee8549
productSignal: CYAN
authoritySignal: MFDS/domestic
pilotRank: 115

SOURCE_TEXT
Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 1 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
Software Development Plan
for
G Series
Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector
Report No.: A-TCF-10-143 (Rev.1)
Dept. / Title Name Date Signature
Prepared R&D team Song, Jinsun 2026-04-14
Review R&D Manager Lee, Dongho 2026-04-14
Approval Quality Manager Hur Namkyu 2026-04-14

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 2 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
Table of contents
1. Purpose of the software development plan ..............................................................................................................4
2. Work that should be performed in the development stage .................................................................................4
3. Classification of software and its application .........................................................................................................5
3.1 Software classification comply with FDA Guide Line .........................................................................................5
3.2 Software classification in accordance with EN 62304 ..........................................................................................6
4. Software Development Environment ........................................................................................................................8
4.1 Software development resources ............................................................................................................................. 10
5. Software Requirements Specification .................................................................................................................... 11
6. Software Architectural Design ................................................................................................................................. 13
7. Software Design Specification .................................................................................................................................. 13
8. Software Risk Management ...................................................................................................................................... 13
9. Software Verification & Validation ......................................................................................................................... 16
10. Software release ............................................................................................................................................................ 19
11. Software Configuration Management.................................................................................................................... 20
12. Problem settlement and support in the software development activities .................................................... 21

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 3 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
Revision history
Rev. Revision date Page The reason & content for establishment and amendment
0 2024.07.01 - Initial Release
1 2026.04.14 - Revision

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 4 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
1. Purpose of the software development plan
To use the Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector developed, produced and sold by this company according to
intention, it aims at developing software that can manipulate and utilize the product function.
2. Work that should be performed in the development stage
(1) Determine which product will be developed and forward the requirements to the R&D team so get it
developed according to intention.
(2) Stage of the development work (time frame)
1) First stage: Select the product to be developed.
2) Second stage: Gather material on the selected product.
3) Third stage: Based on the gathered material, select and contract with a development firm which will
realize the product development.
4) Fourth stage: Forward the requirements necessary for the product development to the selected firm.
5) Fifth stage: Once the development firm get started the product development, this company shall
forward the development direction, changed requirements, etc to the development firm aside from
a relevant meeting and support the product development positively.
6) Sixth stage: If the development is finished, conduct testing and verification for the product
realization jointly with the development firm, and adjust, complement so make the completed
product a reality.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 5 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
3. Classification of software and its application
3.1 Software classification comply with FDA Guide Line
(1) S/W is classified and applied in accordance with the table as follows. :
“Major” Level of
Concern
The level of concern is “Major” if a failure or latent flaw could directly result in death
or serious injury to the patient or operator. The level of concern is also “Major” if a
failure or latent flaw could indirectly result in death or serious injury of the patient or
operator through incorrect or delayed information.
“Moderate” Level
of Concern
The level of concern is “Moderate” if a failure or latent design flaw could directly
result in minor injury to the patient or operator. The level of concern is also
“Moderate” if a failure or latent flaw could indirectly result in minor injury to the
patient or operator through incorrect or delayed information.
“Minor” Level of
Concern
The level of concern is “Minor” if failures or latent design flaws are unlikely to cause
any injury to the patient or operator.
(2) S/W is classified into Major, Moderate and Minor by its level of concern, which is determined
by answer to the questions listed in the table as follows:
Table 1 “Major” Level of Concern
If the answer to any one question below is Yes, the Level of Concern for the Software Device
is likely to be “Major”. Answer
1. Does the Software Device qualify as Blood Establishment Computer Software? □Y □N
2. Is the Software Device intended to be used in combination with a drug or biologic? □Y □N
3. Is the Software Device an accessory to a medical device that has a ‘Major’ Level of Concern? □Y □N
4. Prior to mitigation of hazards, could a failure of the Software Device result in death or serious
injury, either to a patient or to a user of the device? □Y □N
a. Does the Software Device control a life supporting or life sustaining function? □Y □N
b. Does the Software Device control the delivery of potentially harmful energy that could result
in death or serious injury, such as radiation treatment systems, defibrillators, and ablation
generators?
□Y □N
c. Does the Software Device control the delivery of treatment or therapy such that an error or
malfunction could result in death or serious injury? □Y □N
d. Does the Software Device provide diagnostic information that directly drives a decision
regarding treatment or therapy, such that if misapplied it could result in serious injury or death? □Y □N
e. Does the Software Device provide vital signs monitoring and alarms for potentially life
threatening situations in which medical intervention is necessary? □Y □N

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 6 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
Table 2 “Moderate” Level of Concern
If the Software Device is not Major Level of Concern and the answer to any one question below is
Yes, the Level of Concern is likely to be Moderate. Answer
1. Is the Software Device an accessory to a medical device that has a Moderate Level of Concern? □Y □N
2. Prior to mitigation of hazards, could a failure of the Software Device result in Minor Injury, either to a
patient or to a user of the device? □Y □N
3. Could a malfunction of, or a latent design flaw in, the Software Device lead to an erroneous diagnosis or
a delay in delivery of appropriate medical care that would likely lead to Minor Injury? □Y □N
If the answers to all of the questions in Tables 1 and 2 above are No, the Level of Concern is Minor.
3.2 Software classification in accordance with EN 62304
(1) S/W is classified and applied in accordance with as follows. :
1) This company shall assign software safety class to each software system originated by our
software system and based on the impact of the harm on the patient, the worker, or others.
The software safety classes shall initially be assigned based on concern as follows:
-. Class A: There is no injury nor health damage.
-. Class B: The possible harm is non-serious injury.
-. Class C: The possible harm is death or serious injury.
In case harm is caused by that Software system is not operate by designated, the possibility of
such defectiveness should be regarded as 100%.
(2) If the risk of death or serious injury arising from a software failure is subsequently reduced to an
acceptable level (as defined by ISO 14971) by a hardware risk control measure, either by
reducing the consequences of the failure or by reducing the probability of death or serious injury
arising from that failure, the software safety classification may be reduced from C to B. and If
the risk of non- serious injury arising from a software failure is similarly reduced to an acceptable
level by a hardware risk control measure, the software safety classification may be reduced from
B to A. Our company assigned to each software system that contributes to the implementation of
a risk control measure a software safety class based on the possible effects of the hazard that the
risk control measure is controlling.
(3) [If applicable] The company documented the software safety class assigned to each software
system in the risk management file.
(4) [If applicable] When a software system is decomposed into software items, and when a software
item is decomposed into further software items, such software items inherit the software safety
classification of the original software item (or software system) unless our company documents
a rationale for classification into a different software safety class. Such A rationale explains how
the new software items are segregated so that they may be classified separately.
(5) [If applicable] Our company documented the software safety class of each software item if that
class is different from the class of the software item from which it was created by decomposition.
(6) [If applicable] For compliance with standard, wherever a process is required for software items
of a specific classification and the process is necessarily applied to a group of software items,
our company used the processes and tasks which are required by the classification of the highest-
classified software item in the group unless our company documents in the risk management file
a rationale for using a lower classification.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 7 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
(7) [If applicable] For each software system, until a software safety class is assigned, Class C
requirements applied.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 8 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
4. Software Development Environment
(1) Software development process of H&abyz Co., Ltd. follows “Classic waterfall methodology", as
illustrated in the following chart.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 9 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
(2) The details of the development process and schedule of each software are presented in the table below.
Step Main Contents Development
Period
Analysis
The activity consists of establishing requirements for as much as possible
before the design phase. The requirements are documented in the
software-specific requirements and design notes.
2024.07.01~
2024.07.15
Planning
This activity constructs the software development plan. This plan outlines
the tasks, responsibilities, resource, and other items pertinent to the
specific development project.
2024.07.16~
2024.07.31
Design
The activity considers four functional attribute of the software: data
structure, software architecture, functionality, and interface
characterization. The design is documented in design documents.
2024.08.01~
2024.08.31
Implementation
The implementation phase converts the design into a machine-readable
form. The software source code is created in accordance with H&abyz
Co., Ltd.‘s coding conventions.
To verify that the code created is consistent with H&abyz Co., Ltd.
standard, reviews/inspections are held.
2024.09.01~
2024.10.15
Qualification
The qualification phase verifies that the design and code implemented
meet the requirements. Testing ensures that defined input will produce
actual results that agree with required results.
2024.10.16~
2024.10.31
Maintenance
Once the software enters a released state, the only software changes
allowed are to fix identified defects in the code or to support approved
enhancements.
2024.11.01~
2024.11.14
Software
release
Software verification has been completed and the software prior to
release of the software should verify the evaluation results.
2024.11.15~
2024.11.22
Development
plan updated
UI can be updated or completely replaced to satisfy customer requirement
or revision s/w.
2024.11.23~
2024.11.25
(3) The input requirements and verification results (outputs) required at each development step of each
software are presented in the table below.
Step Input requirements Responsible person Verification Results (Outputs)
Analysis and
Planning Investigating similar products
Jinsun, Song
Jaemin, Jeong
Dongho, Lee
Software Development Plan,
Software Requirements
Specification
Design
Software Development Plan,
Software Requirements
Specification
Jinsun, Song
Jaemin, Jeong
Dongho, Lee
Architecture Design,
Design Technique Specification
Implementation Software design
Jinsun, Song
Jaemin, Jeong
Dongho, Lee
Source code
Qualification Measuring instrument for
certification validation
Jinsun, Song
Jaemin, Jeong
Namkyu, Hur
Test, Software Risk Management,
Software Validation Report
Maintenance Measuring instrument for output
validation
Jinsun, Song
Jaemin, Jeong
Dongho, Lee
Software Configuration
Management Plan

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 10 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
4.1 Software development resources
(1) Hardware resources
Section Resource
MCU Function 32Bit Microprocessor
MCU Model Intel Cyclone V
(2) Software resources
Section Resource
Operation system Windows 11 64bit
Compiler Microsoft Visual Studio 2022 Professional / aarch64-poky-linux-gcc / C#
Debugging tool Microsoft Visual Studio 2022 Professional
Editor tool Microsoft Visual Studio 2022 Professional
(3) Human Resources
Team Person Responsibilities (produced or processed documents)
SW Team SW Engineer
(2 person)
SRS (design)
Software architecture (design) Implementation, coding
SDS (design)
User Manual (design) Hazards analysis (design)
Software static test report (perform) Software dynamic test report
(verification)
Team Manager
(1 person)
SRS (approval)
Software architecture (design, approval) SDS (approval)
Hazards analysis (verification) User Manual (verification) Software
test plan (verification) Software test report (verification) Traceability
analysis (design) Validation report (design)
Test Engineers
(2 person)
Software test report
Application
Software Team
SW Engineers
(2 person) User Manual (verification)
Proprietary application Design and implementation. Casual Software
test
Team Manager
(1 person)
SDS (verification)
User Manual (verification)
Quality
Management
Team
Team Manager
(1 person)
SRS (approval) SDS (approval)

Hazards analysis (approval) User Manual (approval) Hazards
Analysis (approval) Software test report (approval) Traceability
analysis (approval) Validation report (approval)
Marketing
Team
Team Manager
(1 person) SRS (verification)
Hazards analysis (verification)
Customer
Support Team Team Manager
(1 person)
SDS (verification)
User Manual (verification) Hazards analysis (verification) Validation
report (verification)

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 11 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
5. Software Requirements Specification
(1) Functional Requirement
Function by each module and essential factor that each function must equip in software are as below:
1) Software function
① Common functions Module
₋ It should support normal mode setting function.
₋ It should support line trigger mode setting function.
₋ It should support AED mode setting function.
₋ It should support stand alone mode setting function.
₋ It should support gets the current operation mode function.
₋ It should support sets the operation mode function.
₋ It should support connect function.
₋ It should support disconnect function.
₋ It should support a function that creates a handle for connecting to the detector.
₋ It should support a function that disposes the created detector handle.
₋ It should support gets the current image acquisition time function.
₋ It should support sets the image acquisition time function.
₋ It should support a reading function of image acquisition screen area.
₋ It should support gets the currently threshold value of the detector.
₋ It should support sets the threshold value of the detector.
₋ It should support checks the status of the detector.
₋ It should support gets the current temperature of the detector.
₋ It should support gets current local time of the detector.
₋ It should support sets current local time of the detector.
₋ It should support gets the static information of the detector.
₋ It should support gets the count of images in the detector's internal storage.
₋ It should support gets the list of images in the detector's internal storage.
₋ It should support gets the image data in the detector's internal storage.
₋ It should support removes images in the detecotr's internal storage.
₋ It should support gets the firmware version number of the detector.
② Image acquisition Module
₋ It should support a function that starts acquiring image.
₋ It should support a function that aborts acquiring image.
③ Calibration Module
₋ It should support a function that creates a handle for generating calibration files.
₋ It should support a function that generates a offset correction file using a calibration handle.
₋ It should support a function that generates gain correction files using a calibration handle.
₋ It should support a function that generates a bad pixel correction file using a calibration handle.
₋ It should support a function that applies offset correction to the target image using a calibration
handle and calibration files.
₋ It should support a function that applies gain correction to the target image using a calibration
handle and calibration files.
₋ It should support a function that applies bad-pixel correction to the target image using a
calibration handle and calibration files.
₋ It should support a function that disposes of the memory used by the calibration handle.
④ Firmware Update Module
₋ It should support the administrator's ability to perform firmware updates.
2) Firmware function
① iMX8 Module
₋ It should support the function to write FPGA register values used for acquisition.
₋ It should support the function to write the FPGA register to request starting the acquisition.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 12 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
₋ It should support the function to continuously read the FPGA state register.
₋ It should support the function to send the 'Exposure' state if the FPGA state register enters the
'Window open' state.
₋ It should support the function to wait for the image data to arrive from the FPGA through the
CSI data transfer module.
₋ It should support the function to transfer image data to the host PC.
₋ It should support the function to save the image data to storage if the data transfer fails.
₋ It should support the function to detect whether the AP button is pressed.
₋ It should support displaying the battery levels, connection type, heartbeat, and Wi-Fi signal
strength on the OLED.
₋ It should support the function to display IP address on the OLED.
₋ It should support displaying the SSID on the OLED only when the current connection type is
Wireless mode.
₋ It should support displaying context-specific text on the OLED, including 'Booting' message
and error codes.
₋ It should support navigating and selecting icons for each connection-mode.
② FPGA App Module
₋ It should support the function to configure FPGA app module.
₋ It should support the function to read the command register received from the iMX8 module.
₋ It should support the function to set up the acquisition parameters.
₋ It should support the function to detect X-ray exposure.
₋ It should support the function to open the window for the duration specified by the exposure
time.
₋ It should support the function to read-out the panel.
₋ It should support the function to transmit image data through the CSI interface.
₋ It should support the function to stabilize the panel after image acquisition.
3) Cyber Security
① Wi-Fi Login Password
₋ Random access should be limited by setting ID and password when accessing the wireless
network.
② Authentication and encryption
₋ Transmission data should be protected by applying encryption such as WPA, WPAPSK,
WPA2, WPA2PSK, WPAPSK+TKIP, etc.
4) Error control
① Connect Error
₋ It should support recovery mode to enable reconnection in case of disconnection between the
detector and SDK software.
② Image Processing Error
₋ When noise or line appeared during the pre-processing the image received from the detector,
it should provide a calibration image for normal process.
(2) Verification activities
1) Prior to development of the software, concrete items thereof should be planned/devised, and based
on this the software development should be done.
2) The software requirements should analyze the risk to examine the safety and reliability and
subsequently manage toward the software developed as an input material for the software
development so evaluate whether it is legitimate to use.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 13 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
Category Description Reference Result responsible
person
Software
development
Devise a plan for the software
development and put it in writing EN ISO13485:2016 Software development
plan
R&D
manager
Software risk
analysis
Identification of the characteristics
and hazards associated with the
intended use and the safety of the
device, risk assessment
EN ISO14971:2019 Software Validation
Report
Quality
manager
6. Software Architectural Design
The software architectural design is a structure that explains the software requirements by the software
structure and identifies the software item. The software architectural design includes a similar description etc.
on the relation between the primary functions of the software inclusive of the relation with the data flow such
as a typical flow chart, hardware and networking. That does not need to include every function call of this
document and module in general. However, there should be sufficient information to allow review by an
organization on the functionality and intended use of the software equipment.
7. Software Design Specification
The software design specification explains materialization of the requirements on the software device. In the
aspect of the relation between the Software Requirements Specification (SRS) and the Software Design
Specification (SDS), SRS explains how the software device will be worked while SDS explains how the
requirements will be materialized to SRS. The information presented to SDS should be enough to confirm the
job conducted by a software engineer who made the software device is clear and not vague along with a
temporary design decision at least. SDS can include a reference on the other document like the Software
Detailed Design.
8. Software Risk Management
(1) As for the software risk management, personnel who participated in the program development process
shall decide, analyze potential risk, reason, probability and severity of the software.
(2) As to the analyzed risk, make out a risk evaluation and present, verify the risk control method thereof.
(3) Software risk management
1) Risk evaluation matrix
Severity
Probability
Not Entirely Ha
rmful (1)
Slight
(2)
Severe
(3)
Very Severe
(4)
Paralysis State
(5)
Frequent(5) 5 10 15 20 25
Probable(4) 4 8 12 16 20
Occasional(3) 3 6 9 12 15

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 14 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
Remote(2) 2 4 6 8 10
Improbable(1) 1 2 3 4 5
2) Explanation of the risk evaluation zone
① Acceptable zone (Green Zone)
As severity and probability on hazard is quite low, the risk is a level which is acceptable and
negligible when compared with the risk of another hazard. But risk control measures for the risk
reduction are needed as far as possible.
② Non-acceptable zone (Red Zone)
If the risk still remains on the non-acceptable zone even after taking measures to reduce or remove
the risk, stop the design work.
3) Risk estimation level
① Severity
Step Severity Definition
5 Paralysis State Potential failure mode affects safe system operation
4 Very Severe System inoperable with equipment damage
3 Severe System inoperable without damage
2 Slight System operable with some degradation of performance
1 Not Entirely Harmful None
② Probability
Step Probability Definition
5 Frequent
Daily, 1 / 1 day (usually)
Likely to occur often in the life of an item, with a likelihood of
occurrence greater than 10^-2 in any one mission
4 Probable
Weekly, 1 / 1 week (often)
Will occur several times in the life of an item, with a likelihood of
occurrence less than 10^-2 but greater than 10^-3 in any one mission
3 Occasional
Monthly, 1 / 1 month (sometimes)
Likely to occur sometime in the life of an item, with likelihood of
occurrence less than 10^-3 but greater than 10^-5 in any one mission
2 Remote
Quarterly, 1 / 1 quarter (a few times while its life cycle)
Unlikely but possible to occur in the life of an item, with a likelihood
of occurrence less than 10^-5 but greater than 10^-6 in any one
mission
1 Improbable
Annually, 1 / 1 (might occur but hardly does)
So unlikely, it can be assumed occurrence may not be experienced,
with a likelihood of occurrence less than 10^-6 in any one mission.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 15 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
※ If the HAZARD could arise from a failure of the SOFTWARE SYSTEM to behave as specified, the
probability of such failure shall be assumed to be 100 percent [∵EN 62304:2006/AC:2008, Cl. 4.3 a)].

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 16 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
9. Software Verification & Validation
(1) Work of verification and Validation
1) Definition
Verification means “confirmation that specific requirements are met by presentation of objective evidence
and inspection”. The software verification in the software development environment is confirmation that
the output in the specific stage of development meets every input requisite of the said stage. The software
test is one of the several verification activities to confirm that the output in the software development stage
meets the input requisite. The software validation is to prove with objective evidence that both the user
requirements and use purpose on the function whose software has been used are consistent with the
software.
Software verification and validation shall be confirmed through the software test. The software test shall
conduct the unit test, integration and system test.
Type Item Yardstick Criteria Alternative
Common
functions Module
Common application
function setting function
Initial settings and
default values apply
Every error found should be
removed
Debugging
Image acquisition
Module
Image acquisition event
setup and job notification
message handling
Set the collection handle
and save the file Debugging
Calibration
Module
Image correction image
acquisition function
Average image
acquisition for deviation
correction
Additional
coding work
Firmware update
Module
Firmware update and
version control function
Firmware read/write and
firmware check Debugging
iMX8 Module
Detector peripheral
settings and system
control functions
System control and
settings Debugging
FPGA App
Module
Signal processing and
image generation and
parameter setting
Create an image
acquisition and save the
acquired image
Interface
checking
System task
Module
System schedule job
management and system
monitoring function
Scheduling and
monitoring management Debugging
Interface Module
Communication control
and internal sensor
detection function
Communication control
and sensor control by
module
Debugging
Cyber Security
Wireless communication
account control and
encryption capabilities
Account management
and communication
encryption control
Debugging
Error Control
Communication
connection and image
processing error
handling function
Communication error
control and video error
control
Debugging
① Common functions module
Implements and initializes functions of commonly used functions.
② Image acquisition module
Implement and handle functions for image acquisition event setting and motion notification.
③ Calibration module
Implements image acquisition and generation functions handled by image correction..
④ Firmware update module

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 17 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
It implements firmware file update and version management functions, and implements read/write
functions.
⑤ iMX8 module
It implements the peripheral device setting and system control setting function of the detector.
⑥ FPGA App module
It implements x-ray signal processing and image generation and parameter setting functions.
⑦ System task module
It implements the functions of system task schedule creation and management and monitoring.
⑧ Interface module
It implements internal communication control and peripheral sensor control functions.
⑨ Cyber security
Implements wireless communication account creation and management and encryption
processing functions.
⑩ Error control
Controls communication connection error and image processing-related error events.
(2) Time frame and resources for the work activities of Software Verification & Validation
1) Time frame
Primary stage Date of the test case
preparation Date of beginning Date of completion
Common functions
module
After reviewing and writing
initialization requirements
Upon completion of common
function implementation 3 days after the test
Image acquisition
module
After designing the image
acquisition structure and writing
specifications
Upon completion of the
acquisition module
implementation
2 days after the start of
the exam
Calibration module After writing the calibration
processing specification
Upon completion of each
module implementation
2 days after the start of
the exam
Firmware update
module
After writing the file system and
update specification
When the update module
implementation is complete
3 days after the start of
the exam
iMX8 module After creating a peripheral
control specification
Upon completion of device
control module
implementation
2 days after the start of
the exam
FPGA App module After signal processing and
parameter requirements
Upon completion of signal
processing module
implementation
3 days after the start of
the exam
System task module
After writing scheduling
management and monitoring
requirements
Upon completion of each
module implementation
3 days after the start of
the exam
Interface module After writing the interface
requirements
Upon completion of interface
module implementation
2 days after the start of
the exam
Cyber security After filling out the
requirements
Upon completion of module
implementation

2 days after the start of
the exam
Error control After writing the error handling
control specification
Upon completion of the
control module
implementation
3 days after the start of
the exam

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 18 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
2) Resource
Item Detail item Resource
MCU
CPU Intel Cyclone V
FLASH Program Memory 8G byte
DATA Memory 2G byte
NIC 10/100/1000 network system
OS Embedded Linux 32bit
※ Traceability analysis
As the traceability analysis is an essential element on comprehension of the effective product
development, product design, development, testing and risk alleviation, do clear traceability
analysis between the related document and development activities.
Software
Requirements
Specification(SRS)
Software Design
Specification(SDS) Hazard Mitigations Software Verification
& Validation(SVV)

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 19 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
10. Software release
(1) Confirmation of the integrity of software verification
It should be ensured that the software verification is completed and that the results are
evaluated before releasing the software.
(2) Documentation of identified residual abnormal conditions
All identified residual abnormalities should be documented.
(3) Assessment of identified residual abnormal conditions
In order to ensure that all identified residual abnormalities are not causing unacceptable risks,
It should be ensured that such abnormal conditions have been evaluated.
(4) Documentation of the releasing version
The version of the software product being deployed should be documented.
(5) Document how you created the distributed software
The procedures and environment used to create the deployed software should be documented.
(6) Confirmation of activity and work completion
Ensure that all activities and tasks are completed with all relevant documentation.
(7) Software storage
Either a period of time determined by the manufacturer's defined minimum life time of the
equipment or the time specified by the relevant regulatory requirements, the following shall
be stored for longer period:
1) Software products and configuration items
2) Document
(8) Ensure repetition accuracy of software release
Procedures to ensure that the deployed software product is reliably delivered to the point of
use without modification or unauthorized modification should be established. This procedure
should address the production and handling of media containing software products, including:
1) Replication
2) Media labeling
3) Packing
4) Protection
5) Storage
6) Delivery

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 20 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
11. Software Configuration Management
(1) Purpose of the configuration management plan
Software should include a function that can materialize the optimum performance on the
product developed by this company. To this end, continual upgrade from the previously
launched version should be available.
(2) How to manage configuration
1) The development request firm shall conduct monitoring continually the customer
requirements, item for performance improvement and other problematic issue, etc on the
software-applied product so settle through the software upgrade based on the immediate
foregoing.
2) In case the software upgrade has settled the performance improvement, application of the
customer request and bug matter, etc., it should be able to distinguish by a version name and
write as the following type.
Major: A significant change (for example: the change of PCB or another basic functional
frame)
Minor: In case of regular check or Warranty service required
Internal management: Slight change
If Ver. was upgraded for the change of customer requirements and performance improvement,
it will be changed accordingly.
(However, the upgrade item of Ver. will be limited to the one that does not affect the product's
basic performance.)
3) In case the software configuration is changed, it should be recorded, managed on 12.
Software Configuration Management of the Software Validation Report.
(3) In case the software configuration is changed, it should be validated before it is applied to the
software.

Technical Documentation Document No. A-TCF-10-143
Rev. No. 1
Software Development Plan Rev. Date 2026-04-14
Page 21 / 21
This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval. Confidential
12. Problem settlement and support in the software development
activities
(1) Software's problem-solving procedure
(2) The customer dissatisfaction item should be received pursuant to Customer complaints
Procedure and if a software change is needed, it should quickly be notified to R&D team.
(3) To settle the software's problem, a top priority should be given to improving the problem under
mutual cooperation between Production team and R&D team and it should promptly be applied
to the product.
(4) Any issues identified with the software shall be recorded and applicable corrective measures
shall be conducted.
(5) In addition, when correcting the issues of software, the company shall examine the issues,
notify them to relevant personnel, and analyze any trend of issues. The software shall be used
only after the required validation has completed.
(6) As for the software's preservation, R&D team should keep the same version against the original,
and whenever the version changes the two firms should put it in a separate backup file (CD,
hard disk) so keep in the system.
