queueId: ingest-1781569954376-5sv
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260520 우크라이나(Licarno) 23G, P1 - 이창민 팀장님/260602 추가 제출본/QMS/AQP402 QMS Software Validation Regulation/AQP402_QMS Software Validation Regulation.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/bba0c4211706/AQP402_QMS Software Validation Regulation__bba0c4211706_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 23adccb165b6
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 142

SOURCE_TEXT
QMS Software Validation 규정
(QMS Software Validation Regulation)
Distinguishment ■ Controlled □ Uncontrolled
H&abyz 41-16, 2Dong, Cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-eup,
Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do
This document is effective from the date of appro.
Name Team Name Date Sign
Written
Jeong
Gyeong
gyun
Quality Management
Team 2024.04.01.
Reviewed - - -
Approved Hur
Nam kyu
Quality Management
Team 2024.04.01.

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 2 / 14
Index
Revision History ............................................................................................. 3
Purpose ........................................................................................................ 4
Applied Area ................................................................................................. 4
Terms and Definitions ................................................................................... 4
Responsibility and Authority .......................................................................... 5
Work procedures .......................................................................................... 6
Related Forms ............................................................................................. 14

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 3 / 14
Revision History
No Revision
date Reasons for revision and major revisions Approver
0 2019.05.29. New legislation -
1 2022.10.18. Change font (Gulim -> Malgun Gothic) -
2 2024.04.01.
1) Change in document name and number
Computer Software Validation Management
Regulation (AQP406) → QMS Software Validation
Regulation (AQP402)
2) Comprehensive revision to comply with KGMP, EN
ISO 13485:2016+A11:2021, FDA 21 CFR Part 820,
and MDR (EU) 2017/745 Article 10 requirements
Namkyu.Hur

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 4 / 14
Purpose
These regulations apply to the software (hereinafter referred to as "QMS
software") used for our quality management system, production, service
provision, monitoring, and measurement. The purpose is to register,
manage, and validate QMS software that impacts the quality of these
products (medical devices).
Applied Area
This regulation applies to the validation of QMS software and covers, but is
not limited to, the following.
1) Software used in the quality management system.
Examples: ERP (limited to electronic approval, lot and material entry, etc.),
cleanroom monitoring programs, vision equipment for specific products,
software included in CNC equipment, etc.
2) Software used in production and service provision.
Examples: Software used for process management, software purchased,
developed, maintained, or modified for process management purposes or
automated production, software that automatically controls certain
processes, etc.
3) Software used for monitoring and measuring specified requirements.
Examples: Software for measuring products on a coordinate measuring
machine, software that analyzes sterilization process parameters and
determines whether the process meets process requirements, etc.
Terms and Definitions
No. Terms Definitions
1 Software A set of instructions (i.e., a program) driven by machine
state that affects the intended behavior of the system
2 Verification Verifying that the specified requirements have been met
by presenting and testing objective evidence.
3 Validation
Verification by inspection or objective evidence that
specific requirements for a specifically intended use are
consistently met

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 5 / 14
4 QMS Software
Establishing objective evidence that all software
requirements are accurately, completely implemented,
and traceable to system requirements.
5 Software Configuration
Management
A technique for managing the progress of a computer
program product throughout all stages of its life cycle,
from the early stages of software development to
maintenance.
6 Hazard Analysis Identification of risk factors and their triggers
7 Off-the-shelf
Generally available software components used by
medical devices/manufacturers for which the
manufacturer cannot provide complete software
lifecycle management
8 Development Life-cycle
The necessary activities that occur during the project's
concept phase and through the time the PEMS is
validated.
9 Risk Frequency of occurrence of hazards causing harm and
degree of severity of harm
10
Programmable Electronic
Medical
Subsystem(PEMS)
Medical electrical equipment or medical electrical
systems containing one or more program electrical
subsystems
11 Programmable Electronic
Subsystem(PESS)
A system based on one or more central processing
units, including software and interfaces
12 Residual Risk Risks identified through analysis of remaining hazards
after risk management is completed
Responsibility and Authority
4.1 CEO
1) Providing QMS software policies and objectives
2) Providing human and material resources related to QMS software
4.2 Quality Manager
1) Approval of the QMS software validation report
2) Review and validate corrective actions related to QMS software
3) Maintain QMS software-related procedures
4.3 Quality Management Team Leader
1) Implementation and modification of QMS software.
2) Preparation and review of QMS software validation reports.
3) Implementation of corrective actions.
4) Risk analysis of QMS software.
5) Periodic inspection of QMS software
6) Creating and managing a software registration ledger
7) Software distribution

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 6 / 14
Work Procedures
5.1 General
5.1.1 QMS software must be validated before initial use and managed throughout
its life cycle [Development phase - Maintenance phase - Retirement phase].
5.1.2 Risk analysis and change management should be repeated throughout the
life cycle.
5.1.3 If any of the following situations occur in relation to the use of QMS
software, use of the software must be stopped immediately and revalidation
of the QMS software must be performed.
1) Changes to QMS software (e.g., version updates)
2) Changes to the application of QMS software
3) QMS software errors
4) Other problems related to QMS software
5.2 Determination of QMS software
5.2.1 The Quality Management Team considers the following questions to
determine whether the software is QMS software. If the answer to any of

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 7 / 14
the questions below is “yes,” it is determined that the software requires
validation.
1) Do defects or potential defects in the software affect the quality or safety
of the medical device?
2) Does the software automate or perform activities required by regulatory
requirements (specifically, requirements for a medical device quality
management system)?
Examples: capturing electronic signatures and/or records, maintaining
product traceability, performing and capturing test results, maintaining
data logs such as CAPA, non-conformances, complaints, calibrations, etc.
5.3 Software Registration and Distribution Archive
5.3.1 The quality management team registers the software in the software
registration ledger (402-3) before distributing the software, and ensures that
the latest version status, etc. are known at the time of distribution.
5.3.2 After software distribution, register the computer of the receiving
department to ensure that the latest version is continuously supplied, and if
a revised version is distributed, indicate this and identify it.
5.3.3 The original and license of the software are managed by specifying a storage
location for identification.
5.3.4 Each software is managed by assigning a management number.
Software
Management
Number
Ex) H-SW-01
H SW 01
Company
abbreviation
Software
abbreviation
Serial number
(01~ing)
5.4 QMS Software Risk Management
5.4.1 Through the ISO 14971 risk management process, risk factors that may
occur in software are identified and analyzed, evaluated, controlled, and
residual risk assessed.
5.4.2 Depending on the intended use, the identification and estimation of
hazardous situations must be identified.
1) Risks to medical devices
2) Risks to the manufacturing process
3) Risks to manufacturing personnel or the environment
4) Risks to regulatory compliance
5.4.3 Conduct an assessment to determine whether the software's risks are
acceptable.

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 8 / 14
5.4.4 In cases where it is difficult to estimate the likelihood of occurrence of a
hazard, the acceptance criteria are based solely on severity.
5.4.5 Acceptance criteria utilize a tool box in relation to the selection of predefined
software process control methods.
Risk assessment
level Low Risk Middle Risk High Risk
QMS S/W Little influence on
QMS
Some influence
exists in QMS
Overall impact on
QMS
5.4.6 Implement risk control measures when the risk is unacceptable.
Risk assessment
level Low Risk Middle Risk High Risk
Minimum risk
control measures
Possible only with
pre-use inspection
or version
management
Management
through verification
before use is
required.
Management
through validation
before use is
required.
5.4.7 Verify risk control measures and assess residual risks.
5.5 Step-by-step management of softwar
5.5.1 Development Stage
1) Process requirements
Clear identification of regulatory requirements
Clear identification of the software's intended use
2) Failure analysis
Risk of harm to people (including indirect harm)
Regulatory risk: Loss of records due to failure, etc.
Environmental risk: Risk to the environment in which the software
operates (including both physical and virtual environments)
3) In the case of software verification, a verification plan is established and
executed, a report is written, and performance verification is performed
on the usability functions of the S/W to evaluate them.

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 9 / 14
4) Establish a software validation plan
Initial validation is based entirely on input from the process failure risk
analysis.
Validation planning activities identify when critical thinking should be
applied, use input from the process risk analysis to establish criteria for
the level of effort required for documentation, and guide tool selection
in the toolbox definition section.
The toolbox should be utilized appropriately as a confidence-building
activity to be performed to meet the intent of the validation
requirements.
5) Process
Development Phase - Definition: This includes defining process
requirements, analyzing process failure risks, implementing intended
use, conducting validation planning, reviewing formal software
requirements, selecting a software development lifecycle model,
developing a risk management plan, and identifying risk control
measures within the manufacturing or business process.
Development Phase - Implementation: This includes software failure
analysis, documentation and review of the architecture, design
specifications, development and design reviews, identifying risk control
measures within the design, code review or verification, traceability
analysis, and vendor audits.
Development Phase - Testing: This includes optional software test
plans, unit testing, data verification, integration testing, use case
testing, interface testing, regression testing, vendor-supplier testing,
software system testing, use case testing, normal case testing,
robustness (stress) testing, output force testing, input combination
testing, beta testing, and performance testing.
Development Phase - Deployment: Optionally, user procedure review,
in-house training for implementation, installation qualification,
operational and performance qualification, final acceptance testing, and
operator certification may be implemented.
Maintenance Phase: Optionally, software maintenance planning, known
issue analysis, compatibility testing, infrastructure compatibility
analysis, system monitoring, backup and recovery processes,
operational control, and regression analysis may be implemented.

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 10 / 14
5.5.2 Maintenance phase
1) It starts after the software is released and put into use.
2) Maintenance phase activities are activities that ensure that the software
remains in a validated state.
Corrective maintenance: Changes to correct software errors and
defects.
Complete maintenance: Changes to improve performance,
maintainability, and other software properties.
Adaptive maintenance: Changes performed to update the software
operating environment.
3) If the intended use of the software changes, validation must be
performed for the new intended use, and even if there is no change,
maintenance must be evaluated and managed.
5.5.3 Retirement Phase
1) A method for accessing relevant electronic records during the required
retention period when software is disposed of must be established.
2) Software disposal is determined by considering the following and is
recorded and managed.
Is there a replacement software for the deprecated software?
Can the data be migrated to new software?
Does the data need to be migrated to a portable format for long-term
preservation?
What are the data retention requirements for each data type?
Is the data stored on durable media?
What are the storage guidelines or procedures, and is the data
retrievable with all relevant requirements?
What are the procedures for maintaining durable media and the
software that can read it?
Is the archived hardware platform stored for use and retrieval of
deprecated applications?
How is the stored hardware managed?
Is access to deprecated software required as part of a complaint or
CAPA investigation?

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 11 / 14
5.6 Documenting Software Validation
5.6.1 Validation Plan
1) Using the inputs from the process risk analysis, determine the level of
documentation effort required and select a toolbox.
2) Using the inputs from the software risk analysis, select implementation,
testing, and deployment tools from the toolbox.
5.6.2 Definition
1) Definition Block Requirements: Define the activities completed within the
definition block as processes and define the intended use of the software.
2) Process Requirements: Define the overall purpose and function of the
process, as well as the purpose and function of the controlled portions.
3) Process Failure Risk Analysis: The relationship between the ultimate
safety and effectiveness of the software and medical device is considered
during the risk analysis process, including human, regulatory, and
environmental risks.
Risk of human harm: This includes direct harm to patients and users,
as well as indirect harm resulting from the malfunction of software that
controls the manufacturing or quality of medical devices.
Regulatory risk: Consider the risk of software failure resulting in the
loss of records required by regulatory agencies (e.g., CAPA, complaints,
medical device history files), and deviations from quality systems and
manufacturing procedures.
Environmental risk: This includes risks to the environment in which the
software operates, both physical and virtual.
4) Validation Plan: This plan is based on input from the process failure risk
analysis. The plan should provide objective evidence demonstrating the
application of critical thinking.
5) Intended Use of the Software: The purpose and intent must be clear,
including the intended use and regulatory use of the software. The
software requirements must be defined in detail.
6) Purpose and Intent of the Software: This plan should include information
on the intended use, regulatory use, and boundaries of the software.
Software Use: Consider what, why, how, who, where, and when the
software will be used. This can be determined through questions.
Regulatory Use: Identify potential harm to people (other than medical
device users) and the environment caused by the software. Consider
regulations such as public health, safety, and the validity of electronic
records and signatures.
Software Boundaries: Consider boundaries within the process and with
other software.

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 12 / 14
– Boundaries within the process: The software's role within the
process
– Boundaries with other software: It is important to check all
interfaces.
Requirements for software use: Consideration should be given to both
the user's perspective and the product requirements.
Software requirements: Considered as input to the system's design,
configuration, and testing activities.
5.6.3 Implementation, Testing, and Deployment
1) The level of rigor of design validation should be considered in planning,
developing and configuring, building the software, and testing the
software based on identified risks.
5.6.4 Maintenance
1) Establish a maintenance plan: Investigate the impact of changes on
software validation, assess the risk implications of changes, and plan
appropriate activities to maintain validation.
2) Types of Maintenance
Repair maintenance changes to correct software errors and defects
Full maintenance changes to improve performance, maintainability, or
other software properties
Adaptive maintenance to update the software operating environment

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 13 / 14
5.6.5 Disposal

1) The discontinuation of use of the software must be documented
5.7 Creating a validation report
5.7.1 Validation Background
1) Purpose of performing validation
5.7.2 Definition of Process
1) Definition of the software usage process
5.7.3 Process Risk Analysis
1) Conduct a risk analysis of the process
5.7.4 Defining the Purpose and Intent of the Software
1) Define the intended use of the software
5.7.5 Validation Plan
1) Determine the level of rigor and review of the output.
5.7.6 Establishing Trust and Control Measures for Software
1) Software control measures plan
5.7.7 Defining the Boundaries Between Software and Other Systems
1) Define boundaries with software from other systems
5.7.8 Software Risk Analysis
1) Risk analysis that may occur due to software failure
5.7.9 Completing the Validation Plan
1) Plan by selectively using implementation tools, testing tools, and
deployment tools.

QMS Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP402
Revision date 2024.04.01
Rev. No 2
Page 14 / 14
5.7.10 Maintenance Considerations
1) Perform an analysis to determine what impact the current situation will
have and whether new risks arise when changes occur in the process or
the intended use of the software.
5.7.11 Using the Toolbox
1) Review and verify execution using toolboxes selectively in the
development-definition phase, development-implementation phase,
development-test phase, and development-deployment phase.
6. Related Forms
No Record name Form
number
Management
Department
Storage
period
1 QMS Software Validation Plan 402-1
Quality
Management
Team
10 years
2 QMS Software Validation Report 402-2
Quality
Management
Team
10 years
3 Software Registration Register 402-3
Quality
Management
Team
10 years
