queueId: ingest-1781569954370-oh
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/05_해외 등록 서류 (영업팀 F-up)/260520 우크라이나(Licarno) 23G, P1 - 이창민 팀장님/260602 추가 제출본/QMS/AQP707 Product Software Validation Regulation/AQP707_Product Software Validation Regulation.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/156b75c178f0/AQP707_Product Software Validation Regulation__156b75c178f0_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 4b46ef65e82f
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 143

SOURCE_TEXT
제품 Software Validation 규정
(Product Software Validation
Regulation)
Distinguishment ■ Controlled □ Uncontrolled
H&abyz 41-16, 2Dong, Cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-eup,
Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do
This document is effective from the date of appro.
Name Team Name Date Sign
Written
Jeong
Gyeong
gyun
Quality Management
Team 2024.04.01.
Reviewed - - -
Approved Hur
Nam kyu
Quality Management
Team 2024.04.01.

Product Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP707
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 4
P a g e 2 / 12
Index
0. Revision History ............................................................................................. 3
1. Purpose ........................................................................................................ 4
2. Applied Area ................................................................................................. 4
3. Terms and Definitions ................................................................................... 4
4. Responsibility and Authority .......................................................................... 5
5. Work procedures .......................................................................................... 6
6. Related Form .............................................................................................. 12

Product Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP707
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 4
P a g e 3 / 12
0. Revision History
No Revision
date Reasons for revision and major revisions Approver
0 2017.12.20.
Newly established in accordance with the application
of EN ISO 13485:2012+AC2012 & EN ISO
9001:2008 quality management system
-
1 2019.04.02. Revisions to comply with KGMP
Simplified Standard/OPLS Forms removed -
2 2021.10.14. Correction of typos -
3 2022.10.18. Comprehensive revision (supplementation of
procedural contents) -
4 2024.04.01.
1) Change in document name and number
Computer Software Validation Regulation (AQP717)
→ Product Software Validation Regulation (AQP707)
2) Comprehensive revision to comply with KGMP, EN
ISO 13485:2016+A11:2021, FDA 21 CFR Part 820,
and MDR (EU) 2017/745 Article 10 requirements
Namkyu.Hur

Product Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP707
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 4
P a g e 4 / 12
1. Purpose
This standard aims to integrate and support general design control
requirements throughout the product development process. Quality
assurance managers and product managers use this standard as a tool to
manage software development activities throughout the project lifecycle.
2. Applied Area
This regulation defines the software development processes and activities
employed by our company. Software is one of the components we use when
designing and developing our products. To ensure software quality, this
regulation outlines requirements for software design control, verification,
and validation.
3. Terms and Definitions
No. Terms Definition
1 Medical Software
Software developed for use as a medical device, including
standalone software, embedded software, and mobile
medical apps
2 standalone software
Medical device software that has functions that are suitable
for the purpose of use of the medical device as a software
itself and operates in an environment equivalent to a
general-purpose computer
3 embedded software Medical device software that is embedded and operated
within a separate medical device system
4 commercial software Software that has already been developed and
commercialized separately from medical device software
5 designation A designation or name given to medical software to identify
medical software
6 Version Number assigned according to the numbering system for
configuration management of medical software
7 Main features Functions of medical software implemented for the purpose
of using medical devices

Product Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP707
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 4
P a g e 5 / 12
7 structure
The internal configuration status of medical software and
the structure of medical software can be expressed in the
form of functional module units and state diagrams, etc. in
the main function of medical software
8 Algorithm
This refers to the procedures and methods by which
medical software operates within a medical device. The
inputs and outputs at each step of the procedure must be
clear
9 Operating
environment
Hardware requirements for proper operation of medical
software
10 Validation
The act of verifying and documenting that an operation,
process, machine, material, operation, or system actually
produces the expected results
11 Revalidation
Validation conducted when changes that may affect quality
are made to raw materials, manufacturing processes,
machinery, or manufacturing systems
12 Protocol
A document specifying the criteria for producing
satisfactory test results by verifying the test parameters
and product characteristics of software included in
manufacturing facilities and inspection equipment
13 verification Confirming that specific requirements have been met by
providing objective evidence
14 Safety Freedom from unacceptable risks
4. Responsibility and Authority
4.1 CEO
1) Approval of protocol and report
4.2 Development Team Leader
1) Overall planning, implementation, and validation of the project
2) Protocol and report preparation
3) Validation activities

Product Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP707
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 4
P a g e 6 / 12
5. Work procedures
5.1 Development Design
5.1.1 Software Requirements Specification Analysis and Writing
1) The developer investigates and understands recent software technology
trends based on software development requirements.
2) When writing software specifications, the software development
environment and development tools required to implement the function
are described in detail as follows, and the contents are included in the
development plan.
① Computer model to be used for software development
② Name of operating system required for software development
③ Programming language name to be used in software development
④ Various software tools required during development, etc
5.1.2 Software General Information and Basic Structure Design
1) General information on software development
① The developer analyzes the development requirements to realize the
software function.
② The developer understands the data flow and structure and prepares
the basics for development.
③ The developer defines basic functions, performance, and interfaces as
basic data for review during software design or verification after
development is complete.
④ Developers acquire the skills to use software development tools used
in the software design implementation phase when necessary..
2) Implementation and review of software basic structure design
① Software basic architecture design is the process by which developers
translate requirements into software representations. It is the first step
in codifying the interfaces between internal and external software
elements. A rough software basic architecture design involves the
following steps.
– The basic software design includes the following.
 Development task name, software version, and creation date
 System configuration, software development environment
 Software structure and functional classification
 Data flow information between all functional modules
 Module function description
 Programming guidelines: names, coding, comments, etc

Product Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP707
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 4
P a g e 7 / 12
– The developer must go through a process of logically checking
whether there are any abnormalities in the completed basic design
and review reasonable measures for each functional module.
– The developer reviews whether the basic design is suitable for the
user's development requirements.
5.1.3 Implementation and review of detailed software design
1) Software detailed design procedure
① Detailed software design involves the detailed design of each work unit
and subroutine that composes the entire software, based on a
previously designed basic structure, and is defined as a process that
extends all the way to the coding stage. Detailed software program
design involves the following processes.
– After completing the basic design and review stages of the software
program to suit the user’s system software specifications, the
developer subdivides it into functional unit modules and concretizes
it.
– Define the functional characteristics and input/output format of
each subroutine function, and describe the processing procedure
accordingly.
– The software detailed design includes the following.
 Definition of module functions by work unit
 Function classification regarding processing procedures by
module
 Input and output processing of each subroutine function
 Definition of variables to be used when writing a program
 Detailed designer name and reviewer name
– The developer reviews the specified functional modules to ensure
they meet the initial requirements and checks for any logical
anomalies.
5.2 Software Function Implementation
5.2.1 Software developers complete verification work on the basic structure design
and detailed design based on the user's requirements, and then code it into
a software program that the computer can understand.
5.2.2 Developers perform coding tasks while adhering to the syntax rules of the
programming language.
5.2.3 Developers should recognize that the program coding format is an important
property of the source code and an important factor in determining the ease

Product Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP707
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 4
P a g e 8 / 12
of program understanding, and should choose a method that makes the
software program efficient and easy to understand, even for non-developers.
5.2.4 It is necessary to recognize that the efficiency of the source code is directly
related to the efficiency of the algorithm defined at the development design
stage, and when programming the detailed design, the following guidelines
should be taken into consideration when coding.
1) Simplify formulas.
2) Minimize the use of multidimensional arrays when possible.
3) Avoid nested loops and conditions.
4) Use parentheses to clarify formulas.
5) Use fast arithmetic operations.
6) Simplify input data.
7) Clarify error handling.
5.2.5 Developers code with consideration for efficiency in data input and output
between processes.
5.2.6 The program developer must consider software maintenance and provide
comments for each functional module as a rule.
5.3 Software Testing
5.3.1 Software Test Plan
1) Developers create software test plans for each software development
stage.
2) Software testing indicates step-by-step test items, test methods, and test
organization.
5.3.2 Integrated Testing
1) It is a systematic step to integrate the program developed separately by
work unit module into one program after testing each program unit
module and to detect errors related to the interface, and it is a procedure
that must be performed to be recognized as a software product.
2) To test the entire integrated program, the developer generates input
information based on the detailed design and simulates whether the
processing process and output results are suitable for the user's
development requirements.
3) After integrating the modules of the software program, the test contents
and results are recorded in the integrated module test results report.
4) The integrated test results for each module are prepared including the
following items.
① Software integration test purpose and test contents

Product Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP707
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 4
P a g e 9 / 12
② Software integration testing method and procedure, tester name, test
date
③ Test evaluation criteria, test results
5) Errors that occur during software module integration testing are recorded
in the integrated test results, and for test items that are identified as
problematic in the test results, corrective action is taken and a retest is
conducted.

Product Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP707
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 4
P a g e 10 / 12
5.3.3 System Testing
1) The developer conducts a full system-level linkage test that includes not
only the software developed based on the user's requirements but also
the hardware.
2) System testing is the final testing performed before the developed
product is provided to users.
3) The development team leader can decide on the type of test, test
method, test institution, test schedule, etc. according to the development
plan schedule.
4) In the case of in-house testing, the developer oversees and evaluates the
test demonstration activities.
5) A functional and safety evaluation meeting is held under the supervision
of the developer based on the results of the system test, and if any
improvement or functional supplementation work is required, it is
modified and supplemented.
5.4 Quality Certification
5.4.1 The developer obtains approval from the development team leader to verify
that the software program developed according to the design specifications
is suitable for the conditions of use.
5.5 Development Completion Report
5.5.1 Writing a Development Completion Report
1) The development team leader completes the development presented in
the development plan, writes up the results, and reports them to the CEO.
5.5.2 Transfer of development-related data
1) All data and documents generated during the development process based
on the user's requirements are transferred to the relevant department in
accordance with the Design and Development Management Regulations
(AQP704).
2) For software that has been developed, training on the development
system is provided for a certain period of time to related personnel
(production, quality, sales).

Product Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP707
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 4
P a g e 11 / 12
5.6 Design Changes
5.6.1 When a user discovers a significant software error while using the
development system or requests the addition of a new function, the
developer reviews the change and reports it to the development team leader
to determine suitability before changing the design.
5.6.2 Design changes may be unavoidable due to changes in external
environmental factors as well as software issues.
5.6.3 When reviewing design changes, the overall quality impact of the
development system resulting from the software change is considered and
decided.
5.7 Software Version Management
5.7.1 Software version change
1) The version number is assigned as version 1.0.0.0 as the initial version
number when first transferred after development is completed.
2) Version number changes after the initial version are implemented in the
following cases
① When a major function changes: Change the Major number
② When a minor function changes: Change the Minor number
3) Changed previous versions are backed up and stored in the DB.
4) Records and archives the history of changes.
5) If a software version number is assigned to the introduced equipment,
the version number of the introducing company is used as is.

Product Software
Validation Regulation
Document No AQP707
Revision date 2024.04.01.
Rev. No 4
P a g e 12 / 12
5.7.2 Version number assignment
1) The version number assignment method is as follows, and a higher
number is assigned sequentially according to the change content
whenever a change occurs.
ex) Rev 1. 0. 0. 0 Minor features and bug fixes (Hotfix)
Minor features and bug fixes (Release)
Compatibility, interface changes
Changes to major features
5.7.3 Software versions are recorded and managed in the Software Version
Management Register (707-2).
6. Related Form
No Record name Form
number
Management
Department
Storage
period
1 Software Validation Report 707-1 Development
Team 10 years
2 Software Version Control
Register 707-2 Development
Team 10 years
