queueId: ingest-1781569954375-4q7
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/11_Audit F-up/240415-17 ISO 갱신심사 & 2,3G MDR 심사 - 3EC/MDR 보완/[2nd response TD by H&abyz] Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector (08 March 2024) word/A-TCF-5-159 Usability Verification and Validation/A-TCF-5-106 Usability Validation Plan.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/9a28db321018/A-TCF-5-106 Usability Validation Plan__9a28db321018_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 3132c979a6e1
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 153

SOURCE_TEXT
Usability Validation Plan

for

A1717MCW / A1417MCW / F1417MCW

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Report No.: A-TCF-5-106 (Rev.0)

Dept. / Title

Name

Date

Signature

Prepared

R&D team

Kim, Kihyun

Dec 01, 2022

Review

R&D Manager

Lee, Dong jin

Dec 01, 2022

Approval

Quality Manager

Hur Namkyu

Dec 01, 2022

Revision history

Rev. No.

Rev. date

Revision contents

Remark

0

Dec 01, 2022

Establishment

Contents

1 Document Overview 4

2 Methodology 4

2.1 Participants 4

2.2 Training 4

2.3 Procedure 4

2.4 Roles 5

2.4.1 Trainer 5

2.4.2 Facilitator 5

2.4.3 Data Logger 5

2.4.4 Test Observers 5

2.4.5 Test participants 5

3 Usability Metrics 6

3.1 Scenarios Completion 6

3.2 Errors Classification 6

3.3 Subjective Evaluations 6

4 Usability Tasks (Test scenarios) 8

4.1 Use scenarios related to the primary operating functions. 8

4.2 Use scenarios related to the reasonably foreseeable worst case 9

5 Usability Test Method 11

6 Usability Goals 12

6.1 Completion Rate 12

6.2 Number of Errors 12

7 Reporting Results 13

8 References 13

Document Overview

This document describes a test plan for conducting a usability test during the development of the A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW. The goals of usability testing include establishing a baseline of user performance, establishing and validating user performance measures, and identifying potential design concerns to be addressed in order to improve the efficiency, productivity, and end-user satisfaction.

Among the accessories of the Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector can be selected between A1717MCW, A1417MCW and F1417MCW.

Performance and usage are all the same except for size, so there is no difference in 'Usability'

(A-TCF -5-159)

The usability test objectives are:

To construct the benchmarks of user attributes

To identify potential design problems to be solve

To improve product design and production efficiency

To complete end-user satisfaction maximization

Methodology

Participants

The participants' responsibilities will be to attempt to complete a set of representative usability scenarios presented to them in as efficient and timely a manner as possible, and to provide feedback regarding the usability and acceptability of the user interface. The participants will be directed to provide honest opinions regarding the usability of the application, and to participate in post-session subjective questionnaires and debriefing.

A total 7 participants should be at least equal to the following User Profile used in the Usability test.

Education: At least two years of university, equal or more

Knowledge: User who meet the legal qualification for each country

Language understanding: User who are understand the English

Experience: Not require any special experience

To allow a disability:

- Mild reading eyesight impairment or corrected eyesight on log MAR 0.2(6/10 or 20/32)

- Equipment along the one touch or grasp the arm / hand

- Average degree of age-related short-term memory damage

- 40% damage due to normal hearing ranging from 500Hz to 2kHz.

Training

The participants will receive and overview of the usability test procedure, equipment and software.

Procedure

Participants will take part in the usability test at the testing lab. The A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW will be used in a typical operating environment described in usability engineering report. The participant’s interaction with the A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW will be monitored by the facilitator seated in the same place. Note takers and data logger(s) will monitor the sessions in observation room.

The facilitator will brief the participants on the A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW and instruct the participant that they are evaluating the application, rather than the facilitator evaluating the participant. Participants will sign an informed consent that acknowledges: the participation is voluntary, that participation can cease at any time. The facilitator will ask the participant if they have any questions.

Participants will complete a pretest demographic and background information questionnaire. The facilitator will explain that the amount of time taken to complete the test task will be measured and that exploratory behavior outside the task flow should not occur until after task completion. At the start of each task, the participant will read aloud the task description from the printed copy and begin the task. Time-on-task measurement begins when the participant starts the task.

The facilitator will instruct the participant to ‘think aloud’ so that a verbal record exists of their interaction with the A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW. The facilitator will observe and enter user behavior, user comments, and system actions in the data logging application.

After each task, the participant will complete the post-task questionnaire and elaborate on the task session with the facilitator. After all task scenarios are attempted, the participant will complete the post-test satisfaction questionnaire.

Roles

The roles involved in a usability test are as follows. An individual may play multiple roles and tests may not require all roles.

Ethics

All persons involved with the usability test are required to adhere to the following ethical guidelines:

The performance of any test participant must not be individually attributable. Individual participant's name should not be used in reference outside the testing session.

A description of the participant's performance should not be reported.

Trainer

Provide training overview prior to usability testing

Facilitator

Provides overview of study to participants

Defines usability and purpose of usability testing to participants

Assists in conduct of participant and observer debriefing sessions

Responds to participant's requests for assistance

Data Logger

Records participant’s actions and comments

Test Observers

Silent observer

Assists the data logger in identifying problems, concerns, coding bugs, and procedural errors

Serve as note takers.

Test participants

Provides overview of study to participants

Defines usability and purpose of usability testing to participants

Assists in conduct of participant and observer debriefing sessions

Responds to participant's requests for assistance

Usability Metrics

Usability metrics refers to user performance measured against specific performance goals necessary to satisfy usability requirements. Scenario completion success rates, adherence to dialog scripts, error rates, and subjective evaluations will be used. Time-to-completion of scenarios will also be collected.

Scenarios Completion

Each scenario will require, or request, that the participant obtains or inputs specific data that would be used in course of a typical task. The scenario is completed when the participant indicates the scenario's goal has been obtained (whether successfully or unsuccessfully) or the participant requests and receives sufficient guidance as to warrant scoring the scenario as a critical error.

Rating: The number of errors occurring (EA)

Errors Classification

Critical Errors

In general, Critical errors are unresolved errors during the process of completing the task or errors that produce an incorrect outcome regarding the safety. Also, critical error is that participants may not be aware that the task goal is incorrect or incomplete.

Critical errors can also be assigned when the participant initiates (or attempts to initiate) and action that will result in the goal state becoming unobtainable.

Non-critical Errors

In general, non-critical errors are an error that would not have an impact on the final output of the task but would result in the task being completed less efficiently.

Non-critical errors are errors that are recovered from by the participant or, if not detected, do not result in processing problems or unexpected results. Although non-critical errors can be undetected by the participant, when they are detected, they are generally frustrating to the participant.

These errors may be procedural, in which the participant does not complete a scenario in the most optimal means (e.g., excessive steps and keystrokes). These errors may also be errors of confusion (ex., initially selecting the wrong function, using a user-interface control incorrectly such as attempting to edit an un-editable field).

Rating: The number of errors occurring (EA)

Subjective Evaluations

Subjective opinions about specific tasks, time to perform each task, features, and functionality will be surveyed and collected via questionnaires. At the end of the test, participants will rate their satisfaction with the overall system. These data are used to assess attitudes of the participants. The questionnaires will utilize free-form responses and rating scales.

Post-test satisfaction questionnaire

Rating: The 5-point rating scale ranged from 1 (Strongly disagree) to 5 (Strongly agree)

Contents

Description

User manual

Users understand exactly the warnings and cautions in user manual after reading the user manual.

Usefulness

Users think the device is useful.

Ease of Use

Users think the operation of the device is easy.

Ease of Learning

Users think it’s easy to learn.

User Interface Test

Use the UI

Usability Tasks (Test scenarios)

The usability tasks were derived from test scenarios developed from use cases and/or with the assistance of a subject-matter expert. Due to the range and extent of functionality provided in the A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW, and the short time for which each participant will be available, the tasks are the most common and relatively complex of available functions. The tasks are identical for all participants of a given user role in the study.

The task descriptions below are required to be reviewed by the application owner, business-process owner, development owner, and/or deployment manager to ensure that the content, format, and presentation are representative of real use and substantially evaluate the total application. Their acceptance is to be documented prior to usability test.

Use scenarios related to the primary operating functions.

Familiarize yourself with the user manual before and after the product

Connecting the power cord to the power supply

Connecting the Data Cable to the Power Supply and the Detector

Connecting the LAN cable to the power supply

Trigger cable connection to power supply

LAN cable and PC main body connection

Connecting the communication cable to the power supply

Power on the detector

Arrange the patient in the correct position to have detector aligned with the target body part

Calibration of detector by S/W in PC

hazard-related use scenarios for summative evaluation

Scenario

Task

Potential for use errors

Check the User manual

Check the User manual

The user cannot find the safety information.

The user does not understand the precautions. (Difficult term, low readability)

Preparation for using the product

Connecting the power cord to the power supply

The user cannot find the power cord and the power supply.

The user does not understand how to connect the power cord and the power supply.

The user connects the power cord and the power supply in the wrong way.

Connecting the Data Cable to the Power Supply and the Detector

The user cannot find the date cable, the power supply and the detector.

The user does not understand how to connect the date cable, the power supply, the detector.

The user connects the date cable, the power supply, the detector in the wrong way.

Product use

Power on the detector

The user cannot find the power switch for the detector.

The user does not understand how to power on.

The user cannot press the power button on the detector.

Calibration of detector by S/W in PC

The user cannot confirm how to calibrate the detector.

The user does not understand how to calibrate the detector.

The user cannot calibrate the detector.

Check the indicators

The user cannot check the indicator light.

The user does not understand the meaning of the indicator.

Implementation of X-ray image

The user misidentifies which part of the patient the detector will be placed on.

Position the patient incorrectly.

Acquire an incorrect X-ray image.

Maintenance

Cleaning

The user cannot check the cleaning method.

Users do not understand the cleaning method.

The user cleans in an inappropriate way.

Battery charging and change

The user cannot check the state of the battery.

Users do not understand what the state of the battery means.

The user recharges and replaces the battery in an inappropriate way.

** Task Process

Explain the activities to user.

Take rest for 30min.

After activities, record the results to ‘usability validation evaluation’ by interview.

Records by check type.

Validator judges according to the acceptance criteria.

Validator let the non-compatible items to the acceptance criteria be applied to user interface design and redesigned parts shall be re-validated by above process.

Usability Test Method

ACT #1) Usability of User manual

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators satisfied with User manual?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the User Manual is easy to read and understand.

ACT #2) Connecting the power cord

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators attach the power cord to the outlet terminal?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the operators attach the power cord to the outlet terminal properly.

ACT #3) Cable code connection

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators attach the cable to the cable terminal?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the operators attach the cable to the cable terminal properly.

ACT #4) Main power button action

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators Press the main power button to turn on the product.

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the operators press the main power button to turn on the product.

ACT #5) PC software settings

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators run the software to check the software interconnection with the detector.

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the operators run the software to check the software interconnection with the detector.

ACT #6) Battery charging, change

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators satisfied with the battery using method?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the battery charging and battery change

ACT #7) Arrange the patient

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators arrange the patient in the correct position to have detector aligned with the target body part?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the operators arrange the patient in the correct position to have detector aligned with the target body part.

ACT #8) Indicators

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators satisfied with indicator?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the indicator check

ACT #9) Cleaning

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of operators know how to clean the device?

Method description

Estimate of whether or not the user knows how to clean the device

Usability Goals

Completion Rate

Completion rate is the percentage of test participants who successfully complete the task without critical errors. A critical error is defined as an error that results in an incorrect or incomplete outcome. In other words, the completion rate represents the percentage of participants who, when they are finished with the specified task, have an "output" that is correct. Note: If a participant requires assistance in order to achieve a correct output, then the task will be scored as a critical error and the overall completion rate for the task will be affected.

Usability Goal: A total completion rate of 100 % is the goal for each usability task.

Number of Errors

The number of errors include the critical or non-critical errors occurring during the usability task according to use scenarios. A non-critical error is an error that would not have an impact on the final output of the task but would result in the task being completed less efficiently.

Usability Goal: A total errors of below 4 is the goal for each usability task.

Reporting Results

The Usability verification & evaluation report will be provided at the conclusion of the usability test. It will consist of a report and/or a presentation of the results; evaluate the usability metrics against the pre-approved goals, subjective evaluations, and specific usability problems and recommendations for resolution. The recommendations will be categorically sized by development to aid in implementation strategy.

References

EN 60601-1-6:2010

Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-6: General requirements for basic safety and essential performance - Collateral standard: Usability

EN 62366-1:2015

Medical devices – Application of usability engineering to medical Devices

IEC TR 62366-2:2016

Medical devices — Part 2: Guidance on the application of usability engineering to medical devices

EN ISO 14971:2019

Medical Devices – Application of risk management to medical devices
