queueId: ingest-1781569954384-e0s
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/11_Audit F-up/240415-17 ISO 갱신심사 & 2,3G MDR 심사 - 3EC/MDR 보완/[2nd response TD by H&abyz] Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector (08 March 2024) pdf/A-TCF-5-157 Clinical Evaluation/Appendix I Checklist for the release of the clinical evaluation report (rev.2).pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/2f32543f1a5a/Appendix I Checklist for the release of the clinical evaluation report (rev.2)__2f32543f1a5a_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 1bde0833f4e4
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 167

SOURCE_TEXT
Technical Documentation Document No. Appendix l
Rev. No. 2
Checklist for the release of the
clinical evaluation report
Rev. Date March 8, 2024
Page 1 / 3
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
Checklist for the release of
the clinical evaluation report
Product name: Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector
Model name: A1717MCW / A1417MCW / F1417MCW
Name Position Date Signature
Prepared by Han, Jimin Quality team March 8, 2024
Reviewed by Lee, Dongjin R&D manager March 8, 2024
Approved by Hur, Namkyu Quality manager March 8, 2024

Technical Documentation Document No. Appendix l
Rev. No. 2
Checklist for the release of the
clinical evaluation report
Rev. Date March 8, 2024
Page 2 / 3
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
The following aspects should be checked for the release of a clinical evaluation report:
No. Questions and Answers
1 Can the report be read and understood by a third party, does it provide sufficient detail for
understanding the data that are available, all assumptions made and all conclusions reached?
Yes, Literature, Clinical data, Comparison with similar product, market research and test report was
considered in the report.
2 If clinical data have been generated and are held by the manufacturer, are all data mentioned and
adequately summarised in the report?
Yes, it is summarized in Clause 1 Summary of Clinical Evaluation Report
3 If equivalence is claimed,
- is demonstration of equivalence included in the report?
- does the report disclose all the differences between the device under evaluation and the equivalent
device?
- does it explain why the differences are not expected to affect the clinical performance and clinical
safety of the device?
Yes. Comparison with similar product is addressed.
4 If the product is already in the market in Europe or elsewhere, has the latest PMS/ PMCF data been
taken into consideration and has it been summarised and referenced in the report?
No. This is CE certification process.
5 In respect to current knowledge/ the state of the art,
- has the report been updated?
- is current knowledge/ the state of the art summarised in the report and is it adequately substantiated
by literature?
- does the content of the report fully correspond to current knowledge/ the state of the art?
- does the report explain why the benefit/risk profile and the undesirable side-effects are acceptable in
relation to current knowledge/ the state of the art?
This report is prepared on October 20, 2023 (Rev.1).and updated on March 8, 2024 (Rev.2).
6 If the report covers several models/ sizes/ settings and/or different clinical situations, is there sufficient
clinical evidence and are the report’s conclusions correct for
- all the devices?
- all its sizes, models and settings?
(including the smallest/ largest size, highest/ lowest dose, etc.)
- every medical indication?
(as described in the IFU/ not excluded with contraindications in the IFU)
- the entire target population?
(from pre term infants to old age, for males and females, etc., if not restricted in the IFU)
- every form, stage and severity of the medical condition, as applicable?
(including the most severe/ most benign forms, acute/ chronic stage, if not excluded in the IFU)
- all intended users?
(including lay persons, if not excluded in the IFU, and any unusual user group)
- the whole duration of product use, including the maximal number of repeated exposure?
(as allowed by the IFU)
- if there are any discrepancies as to the above, are they identified in the report’s conclusions?
It is described in A-TCF-5-149 Product Description.
Clinical Evaluation Report covers the product. Literature, Clinical data, Comparison with similar
product and market research were reviewed in the report.
7 Is conformity to each of the relevant General Safety and Performance Requirements (MDR GSPR 1,
8) clearly stated and are all discrepancies identified in the report’s conclusions?
It is addressed at Clause 4.7 ~ 4.10 of Clinical Evaluation Report
8 Do the information materials supplied by the manufacturer correspond with the contents of the report
and are all discrepancies identified in the report’s conclusions?
It is addressed at Clause 1 Summary of Clinical Evaluation Report
9 Do the report’s conclusions identify all residual risks and uncertainties or unanswered questions that
should be addressed with PMS/ PMCF studies?
A-TCF-5-118 Clinical Evaluation Report includes that conclusions at Clause 6
10 Is the report dated?

Technical Documentation Document No. Appendix l
Rev. No. 2
Checklist for the release of the
clinical evaluation report
Rev. Date March 8, 2024
Page 3 / 3
Confidential This document is strictly private, confidential and intended solely for the use of H&abyz Co., Ltd.
It must not be reproduced or disclosed to others without prior written approval.
A-TCF-5-118 Clinical Evaluation Report is issued on March 8, 2024 (Rev.2).
11 Is the qualification of the evaluators included in the report and correct?
Yes. Evaluator is a medical doctor who uses our products and his CV is attached.
12 Does the manufacturer hold a CV and declaration of interests of each of the evaluators and are these
up-to-date?
Yes, CV of participants are attached in A-TCF-5-118 Clinical Evaluation Report and Declaration of
interests is signed by evaluator. These documents is attached as Appendix IV of A-TCF-5-118 and
they are up to date.
