queueId: ingest-1781569954369-4j
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/10_자사 품질 매뉴얼, 절차서/영문본/☆ 품질 매뉴얼 및 ISO 절차서 (영문본)/원본/ISO Procedures EN/AQP707 Product Software Validation Regulation/AQP707_Product Software Validation Regulation.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/04001b80b058/AQP707_Product Software Validation Regulation__04001b80b058_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: a90c1295afd5
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 1760

SOURCE_TEXT
제품 Software Validation 규정

(Product Software Validation Regulation)

Distinguishment

■ Controlled □ Uncontrolled

H&abyz

41-16, 2Dong, Cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-eup, Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do

This document is effective from the date of appro.

Name

Team Name

Date

Sign

Written

Jeong

Gyeong gyun

Quality Management Team

2024.04.01.

Reviewed

-

-

-

Approved

Hur

Nam kyu

Quality Management Team

2024.04.01.

Index

0. Revision History 3

1. Purpose 4

2. Applied Area 4

3. Terms and Definitions 4

4. Responsibility and Authority 5

5. Work procedures 6

6. Related Form 12

Revision History

No

Revision date

Reasons for revision and major revisions

Approver

0

2017.12.20.

Newly established in accordance with the application of EN ISO 13485:2012+AC2012 & EN ISO 9001:2008 quality management system

-

1

2019.04.02.

Revisions to comply with KGMP

Simplified Standard/OPLS Forms removed

-

2

2021.10.14.

Correction of typos

-

3

2022.10.18.

Comprehensive revision (supplementation of procedural contents)

-

4

2024.04.01.

1) Change in document name and number

Computer Software Validation Regulation (AQP717) → Product Software Validation Regulation (AQP707)

2) Comprehensive revision to comply with KGMP, EN ISO 13485:2016+A11:2021, FDA 21 CFR Part 820, and MDR (EU) 2017/745 Article 10 requirements

Namkyu.Hur

Purpose

This standard aims to integrate and support general design control requirements throughout the product development process. Quality assurance managers and product managers use this standard as a tool to manage software development activities throughout the project lifecycle.

Applied Area

This regulation defines the software development processes and activities employed by our company. Software is one of the components we use when designing and developing our products. To ensure software quality, this regulation outlines requirements for software design control, verification, and validation.

Terms and Definitions

No.

Terms

Definition

1

Medical Software

Software developed for use as a medical device, including standalone software, embedded software, and mobile medical apps

2

standalone software

Medical device software that has functions that are suitable for the purpose of use of the medical device as a software itself and operates in an environment equivalent to a general-purpose computer

3

embedded software

Medical device software that is embedded and operated within a separate medical device system

4

commercial software

Software that has already been developed and commercialized separately from medical device software

5

designation

A designation or name given to medical software to identify medical software

6

Version

Number assigned according to the numbering system for configuration management of medical software

7

Main features

Functions of medical software implemented for the purpose of using medical devices

7

structure

The internal configuration status of medical software and the structure of medical software can be expressed in the form of functional module units and state diagrams, etc. in the main function of medical software

8

Algorithm

This refers to the procedures and methods by which medical software operates within a medical device. The inputs and outputs at each step of the procedure must be clear

9

Operating environment

Hardware requirements for proper operation of medical software

10

Validation

The act of verifying and documenting that an operation, process, machine, material, operation, or system actually produces the expected results

11

Revalidation

Validation conducted when changes that may affect quality are made to raw materials, manufacturing processes, machinery, or manufacturing systems

12

Protocol

A document specifying the criteria for producing satisfactory test results by verifying the test parameters and product characteristics of software included in manufacturing facilities and inspection equipment

13

verification

Confirming that specific requirements have been met by providing objective evidence

14

Safety

Freedom from unacceptable risks

Responsibility and Authority

CEO

Approval of protocol and report

Development Team Leader

Overall planning, implementation, and validation of the project

Protocol and report preparation

Validation activities

Work procedures

Development Design

Software Requirements Specification Analysis and Writing

The developer investigates and understands recent software technology trends based on software development requirements.

When writing software specifications, the software development environment and development tools required to implement the function are described in detail as follows, and the contents are included in the development plan.

Computer model to be used for software development

Name of operating system required for software development

Programming language name to be used in software development

Various software tools required during development, etc

Software General Information and Basic Structure Design

General information on software development

The developer analyzes the development requirements to realize the software function.

The developer understands the data flow and structure and prepares the basics for development.

The developer defines basic functions, performance, and interfaces as basic data for review during software design or verification after development is complete.

Developers acquire the skills to use software development tools used in the software design implementation phase when necessary..

Implementation and review of software basic structure design

Software basic architecture design is the process by which developers translate requirements into software representations. It is the first step in codifying the interfaces between internal and external software elements. A rough software basic architecture design involves the following steps.

The basic software design includes the following.

Development task name, software version, and creation date

System configuration, software development environment

Software structure and functional classification

Data flow information between all functional modules

Module function description

Programming guidelines: names, coding, comments, etc

The developer must go through a process of logically checking whether there are any abnormalities in the completed basic design and review reasonable measures for each functional module.

The developer reviews whether the basic design is suitable for the user's development requirements.

Implementation and review of detailed software design

Software detailed design procedure

Detailed software design involves the detailed design of each work unit and subroutine that composes the entire software, based on a previously designed basic structure, and is defined as a process that extends all the way to the coding stage. Detailed software program design involves the following processes.

After completing the basic design and review stages of the software program to suit the user’s system software specifications, the developer subdivides it into functional unit modules and concretizes it.

Define the functional characteristics and input/output format of each subroutine function, and describe the processing procedure accordingly.

The software detailed design includes the following.

Definition of module functions by work unit

Function classification regarding processing procedures by module

Input and output processing of each subroutine function

Definition of variables to be used when writing a program

Detailed designer name and reviewer name

The developer reviews the specified functional modules to ensure they meet the initial requirements and checks for any logical anomalies.

Software Function Implementation

Software developers complete verification work on the basic structure design and detailed design based on the user's requirements, and then code it into a software program that the computer can understand.

Developers perform coding tasks while adhering to the syntax rules of the programming language.

Developers should recognize that the program coding format is an important property of the source code and an important factor in determining the ease of program understanding, and should choose a method that makes the software program efficient and easy to understand, even for non-developers.

It is necessary to recognize that the efficiency of the source code is directly related to the efficiency of the algorithm defined at the development design stage, and when programming the detailed design, the following guidelines should be taken into consideration when coding.

1) Simplify formulas.

2) Minimize the use of multidimensional arrays when possible.

3) Avoid nested loops and conditions.

4) Use parentheses to clarify formulas.

5) Use fast arithmetic operations.

6) Simplify input data.

7) Clarify error handling.

Developers code with consideration for efficiency in data input and output between processes.

The program developer must consider software maintenance and provide comments for each functional module as a rule.

Software Testing

Software Test Plan

Developers create software test plans for each software development stage.

Software testing indicates step-by-step test items, test methods, and test organization.

Integrated Testing

It is a systematic step to integrate the program developed separately by work unit module into one program after testing each program unit module and to detect errors related to the interface, and it is a procedure that must be performed to be recognized as a software product.

To test the entire integrated program, the developer generates input information based on the detailed design and simulates whether the processing process and output results are suitable for the user's development requirements.

After integrating the modules of the software program, the test contents and results are recorded in the integrated module test results report.

The integrated test results for each module are prepared including the following items.

Software integration test purpose and test contents

Software integration testing method and procedure, tester name, test date

Test evaluation criteria, test results

Errors that occur during software module integration testing are recorded in the integrated test results, and for test items that are identified as problematic in the test results, corrective action is taken and a retest is conducted.

System Testing

The developer conducts a full system-level linkage test that includes not only the software developed based on the user's requirements but also the hardware.

System testing is the final testing performed before the developed product is provided to users.

The development team leader can decide on the type of test, test method, test institution, test schedule, etc. according to the development plan schedule.

In the case of in-house testing, the developer oversees and evaluates the test demonstration activities.

A functional and safety evaluation meeting is held under the supervision of the developer based on the results of the system test, and if any improvement or functional supplementation work is required, it is modified and supplemented.

Quality Certification

The developer obtains approval from the development team leader to verify that the software program developed according to the design specifications is suitable for the conditions of use.

Development Completion Report

Writing a Development Completion Report

The development team leader completes the development presented in the development plan, writes up the results, and reports them to the CEO.

Transfer of development-related data

All data and documents generated during the development process based on the user's requirements are transferred to the relevant department in accordance with the Design and Development Management Regulations (AQP704).

For software that has been developed, training on the development system is provided for a certain period of time to related personnel (production, quality, sales).

Design Changes

When a user discovers a significant software error while using the development system or requests the addition of a new function, the developer reviews the change and reports it to the development team leader to determine suitability before changing the design.

Design changes may be unavoidable due to changes in external environmental factors as well as software issues.

When reviewing design changes, the overall quality impact of the development system resulting from the software change is considered and decided.

Software Version Management

Software version change

The version number is assigned as version 1.0.0.0 as the initial version number when first transferred after development is completed.

Version number changes after the initial version are implemented in the following cases

When a major function changes: Change the Major number

When a minor function changes: Change the Minor number

Changed previous versions are backed up and stored in the DB.

Records and archives the history of changes.

If a software version number is assigned to the introduced equipment, the version number of the introducing company is used as is.

Version number assignment

The version number assignment method is as follows, and a higher number is assigned sequentially according to the change content whenever a change occurs.

ex) Rev 1. 0. 0. 0 Minor features and bug fixes (Hotfix)

 Minor features and bug fixes (Release)

 Compatibility, interface changes

 Changes to major features

Software versions are recorded and managed in the Software Version Management Register (707-2).

Related Form

No

Record name

Form number

Management Department

Storage period

1

Software Validation Report

707-1

Development Team

10 years

2

Software Version Control Register

707-2

Development Team

10 years
