queueId: ingest-1781569954421-19t0
sourcePath: raw/sources/Project/02_CYAN/1. DHF/26. 사용적합성 엔지니어링 보고서/2. A-UVR-CYN_Usability Validation Report (Rev.0 250915).docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/Project/_combined/25786ded1665/2. A-UVR-CYN_Usability Validation Report (Rev.0 250915)__25786ded1665_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 4a1bb17eb686
productSignal: CYAN
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 1782

SOURCE_TEXT
Usability Validation Report

for

GT Series

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model name: GT1717C, GT1717CP

Report No.: A-UVR-CYN (Rev.0)

Dept. / Title

Name

Date

Signature

Prepared

RA team

Jimin Han

September 15, 2025

Review

R&D Manager

Kyungsoo Lee

September 15, 2025

Approval

Quality Manager

Namkyu Hur

September 15, 2025

Revision history

Rev. No.

Rev. date

Revision contents

Remark

0

September 15, 2025

Establishment

Contents

1 Introduction 4

2 Summary of Validation Activities 5

3 Test Methods 6

4 Result of Evaluation Tasks/Scenarios 8

5 Overall Data Summary 9

6 Further Improvement 9

7 Conclusion 9

8 Attached documents 9

Introduction

Purpose of the Document

The purpose of this document is to outline the Usability Validation Plan for the Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector, Model GT1717C/GT1717CP. This plan ensures that the device meets usability requirements, provides a safe and effective user experience, and complies with applicable standards and regulations.

Variant model differences

: The two products differ only in CsI deposition thickness, as shown below, and are identical in usability.

GT1717C : 300um

GT1717CP : 500um

This device intended use is as follows:

The Digital X-ray Imaging System is indicated for digital imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic system. Not to be used for mammography.

A usability test is intended to determine the extent an interface facilitates a user’s ability to complete routine tasks. Typically, the test is conducted with a group of potential users with portable equipment. Users are asked to complete a series of routine tasks. Sessions are recorded and analyzed to identify potential areas for improvement to the Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector (Ref no. GT1717C, GT1717CP).

The usability test objectives are:

To construct the benchmarks of user attributes

To identify potential design problems to be solve

To improve product design and production efficiency

To complete end-user satisfaction maximization

The purpose of the test was to complete the primary operating function described in usability engineering report without the issue regarding to safety and effectiveness.

This document contains the participant feedback, satisfactions ratings, task completion rates, ease or difficulty of completion ratings, time on task, errors, and recommendations for improvements. A copy of the questionnaires is included in the Attachment.

Scope

This report applies to all usability validation activities for the Portable X-ray System, focusing on safety-critical tasks, user interface evaluation, and error minimization.

Purpose of the Document Applicable Standards and Guidelines

IEC 60601-1-6 :2010/AMD2:2020 - Medical electrical equipment - Part 1-6: General requirements for basic safety and essential performance - Collateral standard: Usability

IEC 62366-1:2015 - Application of Usability Engineering to Medical Devices

FDA Guidance - Applying Human Factors and Usability Engineering to Medical Devices

ISO 14971 - Medical Devices Application of Risk Management to Medical Devices

Summary of Validation Activities

Overview

Validation activities were conducted to evaluate the usability of the Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector (Ref no. GT1717C, GT1717CP) in simulated real-world environments.

Both formative and summative evaluations were carried out to assess the product's safety, effectiveness, and user satisfaction.

Validation Objectives

Verify that the product can be used safely and effectively by intended users.

Identify and mitigate any residual usability risks.

Validation Scope

User Groups: Radiologists and clinicians.

Use Environments: Hospital settings and mobile clinics.

Key Tasks:

Reviewing the user manual and safety warnings.

Preparing the device for use.

Operating the device, including X-ray dose adjustment and image capture.

Cleaning and maintaining the device.

Summative Evaluation Role

The summative evaluation is an integral part of the validation process, providing final confirmation that the device meets usability requirements

Purpose: To evaluate the final design in realistic scenarios with representative users.

Outcomes: No critical usability issues were identified.

Test Methods

Participants

Number of Participants: 15

Demographics: Radiology technicians

Test environment

Element요소

Environment환경

Location

장소

Hope Hospital (Byeongjeom)

희망찬병원(병점)

Samyuk Seoul Hospital

삼육서울병원

Lighting조명

600 Lux ~800 Lux

600 Lux ~800 Lux

Noise소음

40 dB ~ 60 dB

40 dB ~ 60 dB

Temperature온도

18 ℃~ 23 ℃

18 ℃~ 23 ℃

Humidity습도

50 % ~ 55 %

50 % ~ 55 %

Test room (layout)

시험실 (레이아웃)

Data collection methods

Observational metrics (e.g., task completion time, errors).

User feedback through post-test surveys and interviews.

Cognitive walkthroughs for process insights.

Contextual inquiries to understand user interactions.

Test Scenarios and Criteria

Usage Scenario

사용 시나리오

Evaluation Criteria

평가기준

Check User Manual 사용 설명서 확인

Read the user manual and understand the functions and usage사용자 설명서를 읽고 기능과 사용법 이해

Understand how to use it 사용법 이해 가능 여부

Familiarize yourself with the safety warnings. 안전 경고 문구 숙지

Identify and understand safety and precautions 안전, 주의사항 식별 및 이해 가능 여부

Preparing the product for use 사용 준비

Connect product components 제품 구성품 연결

Product components are properly connected. 제품 구성품이 올바르게 연결되었는지 여부.

Product calibration

Whether the user is familiar with the product calibration method. 제품 Calibration 방법 숙지 확인.

Product use 제품 사용

Prodcut power ON/OFF. 제품 전원 ON/OFF

Whether the power on/off method and status of the product are identified. 제품의 전원 ON/OFF 방법 및 상태 식별 여부

Check the indicator

Understanding Indicator (LED) status. Indicator(LED) 상태의 이해.

Product transportation.

Whether it is inconvenient to transport the product, such as using a handle. 손잡이 활용 등 제품 운반시 불편여부.

Place the patient's imaging area on the detector. 환자의 촬영부위를 디텍터에 배치.

Whether the user has correctly positioned the part of the patient to be photographed. 사용자가 환자의 촬영할 부위를 올바르게 배치시켰는지 여부.

Maintenance 유지보수

Cleaning method and verification of cleaning results 청소방법 및 청소결과 확인

Know how to clean the product properly and whether you cleaned it properly제품 올바른 청소방법 숙지 및 올바르게 청소했는지 여부

Result of Evaluation Tasks/Scenarios

Task Completion Success Rate

Criteria: A total completion rate of 100 % in each usability task.

Result: 100 % (Pass)

ACT #1) Read the user manual and understand the functions and usage

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of users satisfied with User manual?

Method description

Verify that users understand the user manual.

Test report

100%

ACT #2) Familiarize yourself with the safety warnings.

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of users understand the safety warnings?

Method description

Verify that users understand the safety warnings.

Test report

100%

ACT #3) Product components are properly connected.

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of users understand the connect the components to the detector?

Method description

Verify that users connect the components to the detector.

Test report

100%

ACT #4) Whether the user is familiar with the product calibration method.

Acceptance criteria

Do more than 100% of users understand product calibration method?

Method description

Verify that users understand the product calibration method.

Test report

100%

ACT #5) Whether the power on/off method and status of the product are identified.

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of users understand power on/off method and status of the product are identified?

Method description

Verify that users understand power on/off method and status of the product are identified.

Test report

100%

ACT #6) Understanding Indicator (LED) status.

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of users understand indicator(LED) status?

Method description

Verify that users understand indicator(LED) status.

Test report

100%

ACT #7) Whether it is convenient to transport the product, such as using a handle.

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of users convenient to transport the product, such as using a handle?

Method description

Verify that users do not drop the product when shooting and shoot steadily while holding the product.

Test report

100%

ACT #8) Whether the user has correctly positioned the part of the patient to be photographed.

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of users correctly positioned the part of the patient to be photographed?

Method description

Verify that users correctly positioned the part of the patient to be photographed.

Test report

100%

ACT #9) Know how to clean the product properly and whether you cleaned it properly

Acceptance criteria

Are over 100% of users understand clean the product properly and whether you cleaned it properly?

Method description

Verify that users understand clean the product properly and whether you cleaned it properly.

Test report

100%

Overall Data Summary

The usability of the Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector have been validated according to the usability verification & evaluation plan.

The summative evaluation has been performed according to:

Contents

Usability Test Act

Task Completion

ACT #1

ACT #2

ACT #3

ACT #4

ACT #5

ACT #6

ACT #7

ACT #8

ACT #9

Pass

Pass

Pass

Pass

Pass

Pass

Pass

Pass

Pass

Usability Goal

100%

Result

Pass

Further Improvement

Based on the usability validation and evaluation report, no issues were identified during the usability testing process of the participant interview sessions.

Conclusion

It has been shown that the usability engineering activities are performed to full the usability engineering process. Usability verification & evaluation results and improvement action demonstrated that residual risk regarding usability is minimized and acceptable. Since the usability verification & evaluation report demonstrates that the usability goal met the acceptance criteria set in the usability verification & evaluation plan, no evaluation of “benefit outweigh risk” is performed. The re-evaluation of usability will be performed once new use-error issues are raised.

Attached documents

A-USEP-CYN Usability Summative Evaluation Plan

A-USER-CYN Usability Summative Evaluation Report
