queueId: ingest-1781569954382-c7a
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/01_DHF/03_A1417MCW, A1717MCW, F1417MCW/05_설계개발 검증 및 유효성 확인/13_PMS & PMCF/A-PMS-5-001 Post-market Surveillance Plan (Rev.4).docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/21122bf6c175/A-PMS-5-001 Post-market Surveillance Plan (Rev.4)__21122bf6c175_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: 8460c8cd0312
productSignal: HAD/A/F 1417-1717
authoritySignal: CE/MDR
pilotRank: 1535

SOURCE_TEXT
Post-Market Surveillance Plan

for Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Product name: Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model name: A1717MCW / A1417MCW / F1417MCW

Name

Position

Date

Signature

Prepared by

Han, Jimin

R&D team

Sep 01, 2025

Reviewed by

Kim, Myeongseop

R&D manager

Sep 01, 2025

Approved by

Hur, Namkyu

QMR / PRRC

Sep 01, 2025

Revision History

Revision No.

Rev. Date

Revision Description

0

Dec 01. 2022

Initial release

1

Oct 20, 2023

Response to 1st review by 3EC (NB)

2

March 8, 2024

Response to 2nd review by 3EC (NB)

3

December 31, 2024

Update procedure document number.

4

Sep 01, 2025

Update EU Representative

Contents

1. Scope 4

2. Related References 4

3. Authority and Responsibility 4

4. Device Information 5

5. The Collection and Utilization of Available Information 6

6. Data Assessing Process 8

7. Suitable Indicators and Threshold Values for Benefit-Risk Analysis 8

8. Complaints Investigation and Field Experience Analysis 9

9. Manage the Events of the Trend Report 9

10. Communicate with Competent Authorities 9

11. Reference to manufacturers’ obligations 10

12. Procedures to identify and initiate measures 10

13. Tools to trace and identify devices 10

14. PMCF Plan 11

15. Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) 11

Scope

The post-market surveillance system referred to in Article 83 shall be based on this post-market surveillance plan, the requirements for which are set out in Section 1.1 of Annex III. For devices other than custom-made devices, the post- market surveillance plan shall be part of the technical documentation specified in Annex II.

Related References

Regulation (EU) 2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council

Risk management files

Clinical evaluation files

Post-market clinical follow-up files

Quality documents

MEDDEV 2.12/1 rev.8 Guidelines on a medical devices vigilance system (January 2013)

Authority and Responsibility

Name

Position

Description

Han, Jimin

Regulation Manager

Issue/update of Technical Files

Hur, Namkyu

Quality Manager

Quality Management

Kim, Myeongseop

R&D Manager

Risk Management

Lee, Changmin

Sales Manager

Controlling and shopping products

Hur, Namkyu

Director

Controlling internal process

Device Information

Product Name

Digital Flat Panel X-ray Detector

Model Name

A1717MCW / A1417MCW / F1417MCW

General Description

The A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW are wired or wireless digital flat panel detectors that have been designed for faster, more streamlined approach to digital radiography systems. The detector consists of TFT and Scintillator (CsI) and an electronic device that converts data read through it into digital signals. The detectors support an auto exposure detection technology that allows the detectors to be used without generator integration.

The flat panel sensors of the A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW are fabricated using thin film technology based on amorphous silicon technology. Electronically, the sensors are much like conventional photodiode arrays. Each pixel in the array consists of a light‐sensing photodiode and a switching Thin Film Transistor (TFT) in the same electronic circuit. The amorphous silicon photodiode is sensitive to visual light, and its response curve has almost the same performance as human vision. The sensitivity of amorphous silicon photodiodes peaks in green wavelengths, well matched to scintillators such as CsI. It also has excellent linearity according to the exposure dose.

Intended purpose

The A1717MCW/A1417MCW/F1417MCW is indicated for digital imaging solution designed for providing general radiographic diagnosis of human anatomy targeting both adult and children. It is intended to replace film based radiographic diagnostic systems and provide more precise case diagnosis and treatment planning on a real time basis for physicians and radiologists.

The Collection and Utilization of Available Information

The below information will be reported in PSUR refer to Section 15 of this document.

Volume of Sales

Responsibilities

Sales team

The cycle of collecting data

Once a year

Data collecting methods

When release product, recording the information (Lot No., Quantity. Etc) in Release Record List and collect release record.

Refer to Product identification and traceability management procedure (AQP714)

Refer to Data analysis procedure (AQP805)

Feedbacks and complaints from users, distributors and importers

Responsibilities

Sales team

The cycle of collecting data

Once a year

Data collecting methods

Regularly conduct customer surveys health care professionals and distributors.

Refer to PMCF activity (A-PMCFP-5-001 and A-PMCFR-5-001)

Refer to Customer complaint handling procedure (AQP-803)

Refer to Customer feedback procedure (AQP801)

Scientific Literature Review of relevant specialist or technical literature

Responsibilities

R&D

The cycle of collecting data

Once a year

Data collecting methods

Regularly conduct literature studies regarding safety and performance of our product and similar products.

Refer to A-TCF-5-117 Clinical Evaluation Plan, A-TCF-5-120 Literature Study, and A-PMCFP-5-001 PMCF Plan

Public Databased and/or Registry Data

Responsibilities

Quality management team

The cycle of collecting data

Once a year

Data collecting methods

Search via the databases of regulatory authorities

FDA Recall(http://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfRES/res.cfm)

MFDS Product recall and Suspension of Sale (Korea)(http://www.mfds.go.kr/index.do?mid=923)

MHRA Alerts and recalls for drugs and medical devices (UK)(https://www.gov.uk/drug-device-alerts)

Refer to A-TCF-5-117 Clinical Evaluation Plan, A-TCF-5-120 Literature Study, and A-PMCFP-5-001 PMCF Plan

Publicly available information about similar medical devices

Responsibilities

Quality management team

The cycle of collecting data

Once a year

Data collecting methods

Regularly conduct searches regarding equivalent devices through web searching of the manufacturer of the devices.For now, chosen equivalent devices compared with our device are:

DRX-1

CXDI-70C

CXDI-31

Refer to A-TCF-5-117 Clinical Evaluation Plan, A-TCF-5-120 Literature Study, and A-PMCFP-5-001 PMCF Plan

Product quality information

Responsibilities

Quality management team

The cycle of collecting data

Monthly

Data collecting methods

Regularly check the incoming and outgoing inspection data.

Refer to Data analysis procedure (AQP808)

Data Assessing Process

The data from PMS are analysed whether there are new risks related to the performance and safety of our devices or similar devices in PSUR (A-PSUR-5-001 Periodic Safety Update Report)

If it is related to the risk of our device or similar devices, the data will be evaluated for risk according to risk management criteria

Risk assessment divides severity and probability into 5 stages, records them in the risk management report, and manages them according to risk management procedures.

Refer to A-TCF-5-103 Risk Management Plan and A-TCF-5-104 Risk Management Report

Suitable Indicators and Threshold Values for Benefit-Risk Analysis

Residual risk

There is no known side effect but there are potential risks such as physical damage. Based on the A-TCF-5-104 Risk Management Report, we collected and analyzed the residual risk and there were residual risks categorized as probability levels 2 ~ 3 and severity levels 2 ~ 4 however due to the risk control as far as possible, we reduced the occurrence of probability to improbable or remote (Level 1 ~ 2).

We will collect and research the following clinical data as below:

Volume of sales including customer complaints, customer survey

Literature study

Recall and adverse events of similar devices

Imaging evaluation

If there is a result on the residual risk that could increase the occurrence of probability to more than level 3, the Benefit/risk ratio should reconsider, and risk management shall be implemented.

If the result shows a decreasing occurrence of probability for residual risk, we can conclude that the benefit outweighs the residual risk.

Table. Probability levels

Step

Probability

Definition

5

Frequent

More than 1 time / day

4

Probable

More than 1 time / month

3

Occasional

More than 1 time / 6 months

2

Remote

More than 1 time/ year

1

Improbable

Less than 1 time / every other year (2 years) or hardly occur

Table. Severity levels

Severity levels

Definition

5

Catastrophic

Death of patient, irreversible failure or disaster

4

Critical

Causing permanent damage or fatal injury

3

Serious

Injury or damage that requires professional medical technology

2

Minor

Temporary injury that does not require professional medical treatment

1

Negligible

Discomfort, temporary difficulty

To monitor residual risk, indicators and thresholds are set as follows, and based on the information obtained from post-market surveillance activities, perform benefit-risk analysis and reassessment of risk management when certain indicators reach their respective thresholds.

Indications

User complaint related to physical damage

Description: (number of physical damage-related complaints)/(total number of complaints per year)

Thresholds

User complaint related to physical damage

Definition:

After implementing risk controls, we have reduced the probability of a harm related to physical damage to 1 in 2 years, and we will reassess our risk controls if the probability is greater than 1 in 2 years.

User Complaint Threshold Values: 1 time / 1 year

Complaints Investigation and Field Experience Analysis

Refer to Section 5.2 of this document, customer survey to healthcare professionals and distributors will be conducted once a year.

Manage the Events of the Trend Report

Check if there are any adverse events that cause risks recorded in risk management report among the data collected through PMS activities. Trend report focus on non-serious incidents and undesirable side effects. If there is a negative impact on the benefit-risk analysis, monitoring is carried out.

Monitoring collects relevant information over 6 months observation period.

Check the ratio of the number of abnormal cases to the number of sales for 6 months. (Number of occurrences of adverse events / number of units sold) In addition, the severity is checked according to the risk management procedure.

If the analysed likelihood and severity are higher than the previously estimated values, risk management and CAPA are implemented and trend report is uploaded to EUDAMED and inform NB.

Communicate with Competent Authorities

The following information is reported/managed through the electronic system (EUDAMED).

Report by manufacturer on serious accidents and FSCA

Periodic summary reports by the manufacturer

Manufacturer’s summary report on trend (Trend Report)

PSUR (Class III and Class IIb implantable products)

FSN by the manufacturer

Manufacturer should report to the CA and notify to EU representative and NB.

EU representative

Javitech Consulting GmbH

Sachsenhausener Str. 16, 65824 Schwalbach a. Ts. Germany

TEL: +49-6196-5258 604

Email: contact@javitech.de

Notified Body

3EC International a.s.

Notified Body number: 2265

3EC International a.s. Hraničná 18 821 05 Bratislava, Slovak Republic.

Phone: +421 2 58318343 Fax: +421 2 58318345

Email: info@3ec.sk Website: www.3ec.sk

Reference to manufacturers’ obligations

As required within Annex III, Section 1.1 (b) of Regulation (EU) 2017/745, PMS plan shall cover reference to procedures to fulfil the manufacturers obligations. We have prepared the procedures for Post Market Surveillance system according to Article 83 Post-market surveillance system of the manufacturer of Regulation (EU) 2017/745. A-PMS-5-001 Post-market Surveillance Plan is prepared according to Article 84 Post-market surveillance system of the manufacturer of Regulation (EU) 2017/745 and Article 86 Post-market surveillance system of the manufacturer of Regulation (EU) 2017/745.

Procedures to identify and initiate measures

Analyse data from PMS according to risk management criteria

If it is determined that corrective action is necessary, company reports on corrective and preventive measures and review by the manager of relevant department.

The department requesting corrective action obtains approval from quality manager, and the quality manager sends it to the department to take action.

The department which received the request for corrective action shall investigate the root cause of the nonconformity.

The department to take action establishes a corrective action plan, takes action, and notifies the requester.

The requestor shall check the validity of measures taken. For validation, it is necessary to check whether corrective and preventive measures have been taken in the quality system, not a specific individual problem or a one-time measure, and if the measures are insufficient, re-correction is requested.

The requester shall report the confirmed matters to the quality manager.

The quality manager terminates the action when a satisfactory result is obtained, otherwise orders the action again.

Tools to trace and identify devices

When raw materials are received, a Lot no. is assigned to each raw material.

Products that have passed the final inspection are marked with product name, Lot no, manufacturing date.

Manufacturing date, Lot no., Ref. no., quantity and place of shipment are recorded to ensure traceability.

Later, when the UDI system is started, traceability is guaranteed through UDI system.

PMCF Plan

To verify the clinical performance and safety throughout the expected lifetime of our medical device, the acceptability of identified risks, and to detect emerging risks based on factual evidence, we specify the methods and procedures of PMCF activities in A-PMCFP-5-001.

The main aim of the PMCF plan is:

confirming the safety and performance, including the clinical benefit if applicable, of the device throughout its expected lifetime;

identifying previously unknown side-effects and monitor the identified side-effects and contraindications;

identifying and analysing emergent risks on the basis of factual evidence;

ensuring the continued acceptability of the benefit-risk ratio, referred to in Section 1 and 9 of Annex I in the MDR;

identifying possible systematic misuse or off-label use of the device, with a view to verifying that the intended purpose is correct.

Refer to A-PMCFP-5-001 Post-market Clinical Follow-up Plan.

Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR)

Refer to A-PSUR-5-001 Periodic Safety Update Report.

Our product is Class IIb, so we will update the PSUR at least once a year and report the PSUR when the certification authority requires it.

1st PSUR will be conducted a year after going to market according to the revision of the PMS plan.

Class

When to update the PSUR

Time to report to competent authorities

A or N/A

Class IIa

When necessary and at least every two years

Report when required by the notified body

Class IIb

and Class III

At least annually

Report when required by the notified body

A

Class III or Implantable

At least annually

Every year
