queueId: ingest-1781569954369-aj
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/10_자사 품질 매뉴얼, 절차서/영문본/☆ 품질 매뉴얼 및 ISO 절차서 (영문본)/원본/ISO Procedures EN/AQP713 Manufacture Process Validation Regulation/AQP713_Manufacture Process Validation Regulation.docx
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/096ab764216c/AQP713_Manufacture Process Validation Regulation__096ab764216c_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: aa26e73fc0f6
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: FDA
pilotRank: 1933

SOURCE_TEXT
제조공정 Validation 규정

(Manufacture Process Validation Regulation)

Distinguishment

■ Controlled □ Uncontrolled

H&abyz

41-16, 2Dong, Cheoinseong-ro, Namsa-eup, Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do

This document is effective from the date of appro.

Name

Team Name

Date

Sign

Written

Jeong

Gyeong gyun

Quality Management Team

2024.04.01.

Reviewed

-

-

-

Approved

Hur

Nam kyu

Quality Management Team

2024.04.01.

Index

0. Revision History 3

1. Purpose 4

2. Applied Area 4

3. Terms and Definitions 4

4. Responsibility and Authority 5

5. Work procedures 5

Revision History

No

Revision date

Reasons for revision and major revisions

Approver

0

2012.11.20.

Newly established in accordance with the application of EN ISO 13485:2012+AC2012 & EN ISO 9001:2008 quality management system

-

1

2018.02.26.

Apply company CI changes

-

2

2019.04.02.

Amendments in accordance with KGMP application

-

3

2021.10.13.

Correction of typos

-

4

2022.10.27.

Review the text and secure the procedures

-

5

2024.04.01.

1) Change in document name and number

Process Validation Management Regulation (AQP711) → Manufacturing Process Validation Regulation (AQP713)

2) Comprehensive revision to comply with KGMP, EN ISO 13485:2016+A11:2021, FDA 21 CFR Part 820, and MDR (EU) 2017/745 Article 10 requirements

Namkyu.Hur

Purpose

The purpose of this regulation is to establish methods and procedures to ensure that processes, facilities, or equipment function properly as intended and to ensure that consistent products are produced.

Applied Area

This regulation applies to the methods and procedures for process validation.

Terms and Definitions

No.

Terms

Definition

1

Special process

Processes whose results cannot be sufficiently verified by subsequent product inspection and testing, such as when process defects appear only after the product is used

2

Process Validation

The activity of demonstrating with objective evidence that a process consistently produces products or results that meet predetermined requirements

3

Protocol

A document specifying the validation method, including test parameters, product characteristics, manufacturing equipment, and criteria for producing satisfactory test results

4

Validation

This refers to the activity of verifying, through objective evidence, that a specific operation, process, machinery, raw materials, operation, or system meets the requirements for its intended use or application. In other words, for processes that cannot be verified through testing alone, validation is required prior to process implementation and, where applicable, prior to product design changes, product additions, or process modifications. The process must be strictly managed and monitored.

5

Verification

The act of satisfying specific requirements through testing and objective evidence

6

Installation qualification, IQ

Objective evidence that all significant aspects of the installation of the process equipment and its ancillary systems conform to the manufacturer's approved specifications and that the equipment supplier's recommendations have been duly considered.

7

Operational qualification, OQ

Objective evidence that the process control limits and execution steps affecting the product are consistent with all predetermined requirements

8

Performance qualification, PQ

Objective evidence that a process, performed under expected conditions, consistently produces a product that meets all predetermined requirements.

Responsibility and Authority

Manufacturing Team Leader

Approval of protocol and report

Process management

Validation Manager

Preparation of protocols and reports

Quality Manager

Work procedures

General

The manufacturing team determines whether there are any in-house process validation targets and, if applicable, establishes a periodic validation plan based on the characteristics of the equipment and facilities.

A protocol for three stages of qualification—IQ, OQ, and PQ—must be developed and based on the following process or product requirements. For equipment that does not require Performance Qualification (PQ), Installation Qualification (IQ) and Operational Qualification (OQ) can be omitted. The validity of this should be determined within the team and documented in the report.

Decide what to verify/measure

Decide how to verify/measure

Decide how much to test/measure (statistical significance)

Decide when to verify/measure

Definition of pass/fail criteria

Definition of required documents

IQ, Installation Qualification

IQ is to verify and record on-site whether the equipment and devices have been manufactured according to the design specifications and properly installed to perform the intended function by comparing the actual product with the specifications.

Before conducting IQ, a separate design qualification (DQ) step can be established to confirm whether the equipment and devices were designed with scientific basis and validity.

Things to consider at the IQ level are.

1) Equipment design features (performance specifications, lubrication cycles,

cleaning requirements, etc.)

2) Installation conditions (wiring, utilities, functionality, etc.)

3) Calibration cycles, preventive maintenance, cleaning cycles

4) Safety features

5) Equipment manufacturing drawings, maintenance, and operation manuals

6) Software documentation

7) Spare parts list

8) Environmental conditions (cleanroom requirements, temperature,

humidity, vibration, etc.)

OQ, Operational qualification

Verification of proper operation of equipment within design specifications. IQ is a verification under stationary conditions, while OQ is an actual verification under operating conditions.

The OQ stage verifies the limits of operating variables through limit testing, etc., to ensure that process parameters produce products that meet all specified requirements under all predictable manufacturing conditions. Therefore, the OQ stage simulates actual production conditions, including worst-case conditions that take into account the following.

Process control limits (time, temperature, pressure, line speed, setting conditions, etc.)

Software parameters

Raw material specifications

Fair operation procedures

Material handling requirements

Process change management

Training

Short-term stability and capability of the process (scope study or control chart)

Potential failure modes, activity levels, and worst-case conditions (Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA), Fault Tree Analysis (FTA))

At this stage, statistically validated techniques such as screening experiments to establish key process variables, design of experiments for process optimization, and reliability testing can be used.

For processes and equipment that do not require performance qualification, the facility drawings are revised after this step is completed.

PQ, Performance qualification

This step comprehensively evaluates the manufacturing process capability by verifying whether the manufacturing method, manufacturing equipment, etc. can consistently produce products of the specified quality within the range of process conditions using equipment that has completed the OQ stage.

Things to consider at the PQ stage are as follows.

1) Actual product, process parameters, and procedures established in OQ

2) Product acceptability

3) Process capability assurance as established in OQ

4) Process reproducibility and long-term process stability

Performance qualification assessments should be conducted under realistic, routine manufacturing conditions. Furthermore, they should include upper and lower limits for each operating variable, based on the documented standard operating procedures established during the OQ phase. Therefore, PQ should be repeated sufficiently to ensure meaningful and consistent results.

Management of special processes and automated processes

Any (automated) process involving special processes or computer software must be validated prior to implementation. The validation manager must develop a validation protocol containing the following details and obtain approval from the manufacturing team leader.

1) Project Name

2) Purpose and Expected Results

3) Organization – Relevant Department, Personnel

4) Personnel – Competency Assessment, Qualification

5) Validation Procedure

6) List of Required Procedures and Specifications

7) List of Equipment – ​​Layout, Operation Methods

8) List of Measuring Instruments – Layout, Calibration Plan, Calibration Records

9) Record Format, Classification, Numbering Method

10) Process Overview

11) Specifications for Products and Raw Materials

12) Test Method Overview – Sampling Method, Inspection Plan, Accept/Fail

Criteria, Analysis Method, Evaluation Method

13) Schedule – Single/Multiple Tests, Decision Date, Report Date

Report Writing

The following content must be written in light of the protocol based on the results and records of various implementations and must be approved by the manufacturing team leader.

① Conclusion

② Attachment of external data and reports

③ Photos, references, and pages

④ Evaluation

⑤ Daily management and maintenance plan

⑥ Preparation and approval

⑦ Recordkeeping

Process Approval and Revalidation

The process must be implemented after the manufacturing team leader approves the protocol and report.

The revalidation protocol and report must be prepared, reviewed, and approved by the same organization or personnel that initially performed the revalidation.

Revalidation must be performed in the following cases.

① Changes in process variables (materials, equipment, personnel, work

methods, environment)

② Changes in product performance or effectiveness

③ When validation results exceed specified limits

④ Regularly, at least once a year

Recordkeeping

Workers and manufacturing managers must continuously monitor and control process variables, record work logs, workers, applied documents, major equipment used, and monitoring data, and manage them in accordance with the Standard Document and Record Management Regulations (AQP404).

Manufacturing team managers must retain protocols and reports for at least 10 years.
