queueId: ingest-1781569954395-opz
sourcePath: raw/sources/RA/04_제품별 인허가 진행 문서/05_Blue (G1417MCW 외 7종)/▶ 시험소/06. Usability 보완_250103/05. 주요 부품 인증서 + 사양서/60-2230C/MIC_60-2230C/Cert/23-1952_003-170090_Cert.pdf
combinedPath: raw/sources/_preprocessed/RA/_combined/80caec6247ff/23-1952_003-170090_Cert__80caec6247ff_combined.txt
canonicalGroupId: baf12daeae4c
productSignal: Unclassified
authoritySignal: general
pilotRank: 519

SOURCE_TEXT
Type Certificate
Certified to Laird Connectivity LLC
Classification of
specified radio
equipment
Article 2-1-19-2
2.4GHz band low power data communication system
Type of emissions,
frequency and
antenna power
G1D 2484MHz 0.008W/MHz
Model Name ST60-2230C, SU60-2230C, ST60-2230C-P, ST60-2230C-SS, ST60-2230C-
PU, ST60-2230C-UU, ST60-2230C-U or ST60-2230C-Q
Vendor Name Laird Connectivity LLC
Certified Number 003-170090
Certified Date July 28, 2023
Remark No.23-1952
*Notified to the MIC on December 26, 2022 (Change of certified dealer)
July 28, 2023
This is to certify that the above mentioned certification by type has been granted in accordance
with the provisions of Article 38-24, Paragraph 1 of the Radio Law.

easily identifiable size.
(Effective on February 8, 2019: "Minimum diameter" abolished)
the conformity mark is visually electronically displayed with a description detailing the display method.
DSPRR2
DSP Research, Inc.
Important - Read This First -
1. Marking of specified radio equipment based on a certified construction type
- Certification label, technical conformity mark (GITEKI mark), etc. -
According to Article 38-26 of the Radio Law (hereinafter referred to as the Law), when the certified dealer fulfills the
obligation specified in Article 38-25 of the Law, he/she is allowed to display the conformity mark for specified radio
equipment, declaring that it has received construction type certification. If the conformity mark is not displayed, the
equipment will not be recognized as “radio equipment with conformity mark” as specified in Articles 4-2 and 4-3 of the Law,
and is subject to obtaining a separate license for radio station.
Entities who have received a construction type certification from DSP Research are defined as a
“certified dealer” under the Radio Law.
The details of the conformity mark are described in the Form No.7 of the Ordinance Concerning Technical Regulations
Conformity Certification etc. of Specified Radio Equipment (hereinafter referred to as a "certification regulation’) referenced
in Article 20 of the Certification Regulation, and can be found below.
It is specified when displaying the conformity mark,
For specified radio equipment in which it is unreasonable or difficult to
affix the conformity mark - such as the equipment being temporarily installed or built into another product- the conformity
mark can be affixed to a readily visible location on the specified radio equipment, such as the user’s manual and package or
container. Alternatively, the law allows that the conformity mark may be electronically shown on the equipment’s display as
stated here:
The technical conformity mark must be
The mark indicates the certification by the Radio Law.
The size, font, and color are not regulated but it must be easily
distinguished.
equipment based on a certified construction type”.
Copyright © 2018 DSP Research, Inc. All rights reserved.
“it shall be affixed at a readily visible location on the specified radio
“it (the conformity mark) shall be recorded using an electronic visual display method on the specified radio
equipment based on a certified construction type, and shall be able to be immediately displayed clearly on the image screen of
the applicable specified radio equipment”.
*1
*1
When electing this type of display, it is necessary to attach documentation stating
As a result of the revision of the law in “February 8, 2019”, a new method of electronic display was added, and it became
possible to display the conformity mark on the image screen of the product to which the specific radio equipment was
connected. (However, only when it can be displayed by wired connection with another product having an image screen
before the operation of the specific radio equipment is first started.)
Also, according to the amended Ordinance by Order 67 of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications (Effective on
September 1, 2014), the dealer handling a product having built-in radio equipment with a conformity mark, can affix the same
conformity mark as the built-in radio equipment on the product.
※For “specified radio equipment based on a certified construction type” definition can vary with the details of the type
specifications. When it is installed into another product for use, it means “wireless module, etc.” When it can be used as
stand-alone radio equipment, it means the “housing”.
The display methods specified in Form No. 7 are summarized below:
Example: wireless LAN IEEE 802.11a/b/g compatible product
Details of the technical conformity mark (GITEKI mark) are described in the home page of the Ministry of Internal Affairs
and Communications at https://www.tele.soumu.go.jp/e/adm/monitoring/illegal/monitoring_qa/index.htm
Please list the certification number (e.g. “003-XXYYYY”) as provided by DSP Research at the time of certification. When
printing on labels, please use a material that is not easily damaged.
When use one the following Specified Radio Equipment categories, a usage condition indicating "Indoor use only" must be
affixed to the Specified Radio Equipment in accordance with the provisions of public notices based on laws and regulations.
・ 5GHz band low power data communication system

・ Land mobile station for 5.2GHz band high power data communication system
・ 6GHz band low power communication system (LPI: Low Power Indoor)
"Radio equipment for specified low-power radio stations (moving object detection sensor)" and "UWB radio station radio
equipment (excluding outdoor type)" must also indicate for "Indoor use only".
Regarding the Specified Radio Equipment of "5.2GHz band low power data communication system (vehicle use)", a usage
condition indicating "In vehicle use only" must be affixed to the Specified Radio Equipment.
* Electronic display method can also be used to affix a usage condition indicating "Indoor use only" or "In vehicle use only".
In this case, it is stipulated to attach documents or the like to specify the operation of the electronic display method.
* Only the specified classifications of Specific Radio Equipment that have received construction design certification must be
indicated with the usage conditions. For example, if you have received construction design certification for "5GHz band low
power data communication system" and "5.2GHz band low power data communication system (for vehicles)", a usage
condition in addition to the “Form No.7” shall be indicated as below.
“5GHz band (W52, W53): Indoor use only
(except for "communication to high-power radio" and "use in a vehicle" in the 5.2GHz band)”
DSPRR2
DSP Research, Inc.
2. Fulfill the Obligation to Conform to Construction Types
- Pre-shipping inspection of products and the preparation and retention of inspection records -
3. Excerpts from related laws
• Radio Law
(Obligation to conform to construction types)
Article 38-25
Article 38-25 of the Law stipulates that a certified dealer shall fulfill the obligation to conform to construction types. Before
shipping the certified product, a certified dealer shall “inspect” to make sure the product has performance identical to that of
the certified construction type. Certified dealer must then “make record of the inspection results” and “retain the inspection
records for 10 years.”
The “Marking of specified radio equipment based on a certified construction type,” as described in Section 1 above, can be
performed only after completing the steps of “inspection,” “recording” and “retention” otherwise known as “obligation for
retention of the inspection records”. The certification mark on the product signifies that product meets both: the obligation to
conform with construction type, and the obligation for retention of the inspection records.
The Minister of Internal Affairs and Communications can prohibit the certified dealer from affixing the conformity mark on
the radio equipment (Article 38-28 of the Law, Prohibition of Affixing the Mark) if the certified dealer fails to meet any of the
following: obligation to conform construction types, compliance with Administrative Order from the Ministry of Internal
Affairs and Communications, or fulfillment of obligation for retention of the inspection records. Penalties under Article 112-1
and Article 114-2 of the Law for those found in violation include fines of up to 500,000 yen.
Additionally in the event it is found that the radio equipment does not comply with technical standards specified in the Law
causing potential for it to create interference or jamming to other radio stations, or cause physical damage to human bodies:
1.
2.
Any person found in violation of an order from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications in
accordance with Article 38-22-1 of the Law (Order for Prevention of Jamming, etc.) or Article 38-28-1 of the
Law (Prohibition of Affixing the Mark), shall be punished by imprisonment with work for not more than one year
or by a fine of up to 1,000,000 yen based on the provisions of Article 110-8 (Penal provisions concerning Order
for Prevention of Jamming, etc.), and Article 110-9 of the Law.
Any corporation found in violation of the above shall be fined up to 100,000,000 yen under the Article 114-1 of
the Law.
1.
2.
An entity who has obtained a certification of construction type (hereinafter referred to as a “certified dealer”) from a registered
certification body shall, when dealing specified radio equipment based on the construction type pertaining to said certification
of construction type (hereinafter referred to as “certified construction type”), ensure that said specified radio equipment
conforms to the said certified construction type.
A certified dealer shall conduct an inspection of specified radio equipment provided for under the preceding paragraph that it
deals, in accordance with the method to verify the certification of construction type, and prepares and maintains the inspection
records in accordance with the applicable MIC ordinance(*).
(*: Article 19 of certification regulation)
Copyright © 2018 DSP Research, Inc. All rights reserved.

a.
b.
c.
DSPRR2
DSP Research, Inc.
(Mark of specified radio equipment based on a certified construction type)
Article 38-26
• Ordinance concerning Technical Regulations, Conformity, Certification etc. of Specified Radio
Equipment (certification regulations)
(Preparation etc. of Inspection Record)
Article 19
(Mark)
Article 20
Copyright © 2018 DSP Research, Inc. All rights reserved.
A certified dealer may, upon performing the obligations under paragraph (2) of the preceding article regarding specified radio
equipment based on a certified construction type, affix to said specified radio equipment the mark stipulated in the applicable MIC
ordinance (*).
(*: Article 20 of certification regulation)
1. The information to be provided in the inspection records mentioned in Article 38-25, Paragraph 2 of the Law shall be as
follows:
(1) the number of the certification by type for which the inspection was conducted;
(2) the date and location of the inspection;
(3) the name of the person who was in charge of conducting the inspection;
(4) the quantity of the Specified Radio Equipment for which the inspection was conducted;
(5) the method of the inspection; and
(6) results of the inspection.
2.
3.
The inspection records mentioned in the preceding Paragraph must be retained for ten years from the date of the inspection.
The retention of the inspection records mentioned in the preceding Paragraph may be conducted using a recording media of
electronic records. In this case, the said electronic records must be immediately displayed using a computer or other equipment
when necessary.
1. When affixing the mark in accordance with Article 38-26 of the Law, one of the following methods shall be used.
The method of affixing the mark at a readily visible location on the specified radio equipment based on a
certified construction type (the method to affix the said mark at the location specially designated by the Minister
of Internal Affairs and Communications when it is difficult or unreasonable to display) in accordance with Form
No.7.
The method of electronically record the mark on to the specified radio equipment based on a certified
construction type in accordance with Form No.7, and to be able to clearly and immediately display on the image
screen of the specified radio equipment.
The method of electronically record the mark on to the specified radio equipment based on a certified
construction type in accordance with Form No.7, and to be able to clearly and immediately display on the image
screen of the product connected to the specified radio equipment.(However, only when it can be displayed by
wired connection with another product having an image screen before the operation of the specific radio
equipment is first started.)
2. When affixing the mark in accordance with Article 38-7-2 of the Law, the compliance mark on the built-in radio equipment is
verified visually or by other means, and one of the following methods shall be used for affixing the new mark on the product.
In this case, the new mark shall be easily identifiable.
a.
b.
c.
3. When electronically affixing the mark on either the specified radio equipment or the product that has built-in radio equipment
with conformity mark in accordance with subparagraph b of paragraph 1 above or subparagraph b of paragraph 2 above, it is
necessary to attach documentation stating the conformity mark is visually electronically displayed with a description detailing
the display method that is mentioned in above paragraphs.
The method of affixing the mark at a readily visible location on the product that has built-in compliance radio
equipment (if it is difficult or unreasonable to display the mark on the product, it can be displayed at any readily
visible location (including the user manual, package or container)).
The method of electronically record the mark on the product that has built-in compliance radio equipment, and to
be able to clearly and immediately display on the image screen of the product.
The method of electronically record the mark on the product that has built-in compliance radio equipment, and to
be able to clearly and immediately display on the image screen of the product connected to built-in compliance
radio equipment. (However, only when it can be displayed by wired connection with another product having an
image screen before the operation of the product that has built-in compliance radio equipment is first started.)
